How does randomised algorithm work
The algorithm typically uses uniformly random bits as an auxiliary input to guide its behavior, in the hope of achieving good performance in the "average case" over all possible choices of random bits. 
what do you mean by bestfirst search 
bestfirst search is a search algorithm which explores a graph by expanding the most promising node chosen according to a specified rule
how do you explain a daemon
daemon  disk and execution monitor is a process that runs in the background without users interaction they usually start at the booting time and terminate when the system is shut down
What is phonetic algorithm 
A phonetic algorithm is an algorithm for indexing of words by their pronunciation.
what do you mean by uniform costsearch 
a tree search that finds the lowestcost route where costs vary
What is soundex
Soundex is a phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound
Define A Right-skewed Binary Tree?							
A right-skewed binary tree is a tree which has only right child nodes.					
Difference Between Abstract Data Type	 Data Type And Data Structure?						
An Abstract data type is the specification of the data type which specifies the logical and mathematical model of the data type.A data type is the implementation of an abstract data type.	Data structure refers to the collection of computer variables that are connected in some specific manner.i.e) Data type has its root in the abstract data type and a data structure comprises a set of computer variables of same or different data types.							
Define Root?							
This is the unique node in the tree to which further sub-trees are attached.							
what do you mean by point in polygon algorithms 
find the nearest point or points to a query point
Use of algorithms in computer science 
Functional programming and logic programming 
define dynamic time wrapping 
measure similarity between two sequences which may vary in time or speed
What Are The Issues That Hamper The Efficiency In Sorting A File?							
The issues are Length of time required by the programmer in coding a particular sorting program.Amount of machine time necessary for running the particular program.The amount of space necessary for the particular program .							
how do you explain a semaphore
a semaphore is a hardware or a software tag variable whose value indicates the status of a common resource its purpose is to lock the common resource being used a process which needs the resource will check the semaphore to determine the status of the resource followed by the decision for proceeding in multitasking operating systems the activities are synchronized by using the semaphore techniques
how do you explain children of tree
children of a node the roots of the subtrees of a node are called the children of the node in figure 7 and 3 are children of node 1
What is match rating approach 
match rating approach (MRA) is a phonetic algorithm developed by Western Airlines in 1977 for the indexation and comparison of homophonous names
What is the worst case complexity of binary search?							
The worst case complexity of binary search is O(1). 							
how do you explain longest common subsequence problem
find the longest subsequence common to all sequences in a set of sequences
define an acyclic graph
a simple diagram which does not have any cycles is called an acyclic graph
What is cubic interpolation 
In numerical analysis, a cubic Hermite spline or cubic Hermite interpolator is a spline where each piece is a third-degree polynomial specified in Hermite form:[1] that is, by its values and first derivatives at the end points of the corresponding domain interval.
what do you mean by string metrics 
compute a similarity or dissimilarity distance score between two pairs of text strings
Define Data Structures?											
Data Structures is defined as the way of organizing all data items that consider not only the elements stored but also stores the relationship between the elements.				
What is CPU Utilization:
Percentage of time that the CPU is doing useful work (I.e. not being idle). 100% is perfect.
how do you explain path based strong component algorithm 
in graph theory the strongly connected components of a directed graph may be found using an algorithm that uses depthfirst search in combination with two stacks one to keep track of the vertices in the current component and the second to keep track of the current search path
what do you mean by selection algorithm 
in computer science a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array such a number is called the kth order statistic
how do you explain the best page size when designing an operating system
the best paging size varies from system to system so there is no single best when it comes to page size there are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size such as page table paging time and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system
what do you mean by system stack
each process has one or more lifo stacks associated with it used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system callsprocess control block pcb info needed by the os to control processes
define modular square root 
computing square roots modulo a prime number
What is caching?
Caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process. A cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed.
What Are The Applications Of Priority Queues?											
The selection problem.Event simulation.							
define recursive algorithm
a recursive algorithm is one that invokes or makes reference to itself repeatedly until a certain condition 
what do you mean by the data structures used to perform recursion 
stack because of its lifo last in first out property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls   every recursive function has its equivalent iterative nonrecursive function even when such equivalent iterative procedures are written explicit stack is to be used
What is Ruperts algorithm 
create quality Delaunay triangulations
what do you mean by nearest neighbour algorithm 
the nearest neighbour algorithm was one of the first algorithms used to determine a solution to the travelling salesman problem
How are server systems classified?
Server systems can be classified as either computer-server systems or file server systems. In the first case, an interface is made available for clients to send requests to perform an action. In the second case, provisions are available for clients to create, access and update files.
What is process migration?
It is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine.
define thrashing
it is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages rather than executing instructions this is due to an inordinate number of page faults
define multiplication algorithms
fast multiplication of two numbers
Briefly Explain Fcfs.
FCFS is short for First-come, first-served, and is one type of scheduling algorithm. In this scheme, the process that requests the CPU first is allocated the CPU first. Implementation is managed by a FIFO queue.
what do you mean by a directed graph
a graph in which every edge is directed is called a directed graph
what do you mean by response time
this is the time elapsed from when a process is submitted until a useful output is obtained
how do you explain chudnovsky algorithm 
a fast method for calculating the digits of p
what do you mean by dinics algorithm 
dinicsalgorithm is a strongly polynomial algorithm for computing the maximum flow in a flow network
how do you explain root partition
root partition is where the operating system kernel is located it also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time
what do you mean by a cycle or a circuit
a path which originates and ends in the same node is called a cycle or circuit
What is algorithm design 
Algorithm design refers to a method or mathematical process for problem-solving and engineering algorithm
how do you explain dynamic time wrapping 
measure similarity between two sequences which may vary in time or speed
What is a socket?
A socket is used to make connection between two applications. Endpoints of the connection are called socket.
define the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
what do you mean by topological sort 
a topological sort or topological ordering of a directed graph is a linear ordering of its vertices such that for every directed edge uv from vertex u to vertex v u comes before v in the ordering
What is polygon triangularisation 
decompose a polygon into a set of triangles
what is children of tree?							
Children of a node: The roots of the subtrees of a node are called the children of the node. In figure 7 and 3 are children of node 1.							
Define Non-linear Data Structures?							
Non-linear data structures are data structures that dont have a linear relationship between its adjacent elements but have a hierarchical relationship between the elements.			Eg; Trees and Graphs.							
Explain The Main Purpose Of An Operating System?
Operating systems exist for two main purposes. One is that it is designed to make sure a computer system performs well by managing its computational activities. Another is that it provides an environment for the development and execution of programs.
how do you explain binary search algorithm 
locates an item in a sorted sequence
What is cantor-zassenhaus algorithm 
factor polynomials over finite fields
define degree of a node
degree of a node the number of subtrees of a node is called the degree of a node
how do you explain topological sort
finds linear order of nodes eg jobs based on their dependencies
What is binary search algorithm 
locates an item in a sorted sequence
what do you mean by rich salz wildcat 
a widely used opensource recursive algorithm
What Do You Mean By Double Hashing?							
Double hashing is an open addressing collision resolution strategy in which F(i)=i.hash2(X). This formula says that we apply a second hash function to X and probe at a distance hash2(X)	2hash2(X)	.	and so on. A function such as hash2(X)=R-(XmodR)	 with R a prime smaller than Tablesize.				
What is rounding functions
The principal nth root of a positive real number A, is the positive real solution of the equation
How do you classify algorithm by design paradigm 
is a generic method or approach which underlies the design of a class of algorithms. 
define user data
modifiable part of user space may include program data user stack area and programs that may be modified
What is sweep line algorithm 
plane sweep algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that uses a conceptual sweep line or sweep surface to solve various problems in Euclidean space. 
What is the worst case performance of selection sort?							
The worst case performance of selection sort is O(n2).							
define division algorithms 
for computing quotient andor remainder of two numbers
how do you explain smp
to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used in essence with smp any process or threads can be assigned to any processor
define kirkpatrickseidel algorithm 
is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a set of points in the plane
What are voronoi diagrams
geometric dual of Delaunay triangulation
define fragmentation
fragmentation is a phenomenon of memory wastage it reduces the capacity and performance because space is used inefficiently
what do you mean by nth root algorithm 
the principal root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
What is linear interpolation 
a method of curve fitting using linear polynomials
What is nearest neighbour algorithm 
The nearest neighbour algorithm was one of the first algorithms used to determine a solution to the travelling salesman problem.
how do you explain the best case performance of selection sort
the best case performance of selection sort is on2
how do you explain fortunes algorithm 
to create voronoi diagram
what do you mean by the worst case performance of selection sort
the worst case performance of selection sort is on2
State the main difference between logical from physical address space.
Logical address refers to the address that is generated by the CPU. On the other hand, physical address refers to the address that is seen by the memory unit.
how do you explain quick select 
quickselect is a selection algorithm to find the kth smallest element in an unordered list
what do you mean by substring search
stringsearching algorithms sometimes called stringmatching algorithms are an important class of string algorithms that try to find a place where one or several strings also called patterns are found within a larger string or text
how do you explain best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
the best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is on
what do you mean by tree sort 
build binary tree then traverse it to create sorted list
how do you explain euler method 
eulers method is a numerical method to solve first order first degree differential equation with a given initial value it is the most basic explicit method for numerical integration of ordinary differential equations and is the simplest rungekutta method 
List Out The Disadvantages Of Using A Linked List?					
Searching a particular element in a list is difficult and time consuming.A linked list will use more storage space than an array to store the same number of elements.							
Define A Deque?							
Deque (Double-Ended Queue) is another form of a queue in which insertions and deletions are made at both the front and rear ends of the queue. There are two variations of a deque	 namely	input restricted deque and output restricted deque. The input restricted deque allows insertion at one end (it can be either front or rear) only. The output restricted deque allows deletion at one end (it can be either front or rear) only.					
What is maximal cliques 
A maximal clique is a clique that cannot be extended by including one more adjacent vertex,
Define Forest?								
A tree may be defined as a forest in which only a single node (root) has no predecessors. Any forest consists of a collection of trees.								
what do you mean by tarjans offline lowest common ancestors algorithm
compute lowest common ancestors for pairs of nodes in a tree
Explain Process.
A process is a program that is running and under execution. On batch systems, it is called as a "job" while on time sharing systems, it is called as a "task".
define exhaustive search
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
what do you mean by wait time
this is the time that a process spends for its turn to get executed
define an edge
edge a link from the parent to the child node is referred to as edge it is also known as a branch a tree with n nodes has n1 edges
define schreiersims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set bsgs of a permutation group
define the difference between internal commands and external commands
internal commands are the builtin part of the operating system while external commands are the separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory 
define algorithm design pattern 
techniques for designing and implementing algorithm designs are also called algorithm design patterns
define a spanning tree 
a spanning tree is a tree associated with a network all the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized 
how do you explain edmondsedmondskara algorithm
implementation of fordfulkerson
what do you mean by randomised algorithms 
such algorithms make some choices randomly or pseudorandomly they can be very useful in finding approximate solutions for problems 
how do you explain tarjans strongly connected componets algorithms
tarjans algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory for finding the strongly connected components of a directed graph
how do you explain the data structures used to perform recursion 
stack because of its lifo last in first out property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls   every recursive function has its equivalent iterative nonrecursive function even when such equivalent iterative procedures are written explicit stack is to be used
what do you mean by graceful degradation
it is the ability to continue providing service proportional to level of hardwaresystems designed for graceful degradation are called fault tolerantif we have several processors connected together then failure of one would not stop the systemthen the entire system runs only 10 slowerthis leads to increased reliability of the system
what do you mean by semaphore
semaphore is a variable whose status reports common resource semaphore is of two types one is binary semaphore and other is counting semaphore
define unrestricted algorithm 
an unrestricted algorithm is an algorithm for the computation of a mathematical function that puts no restrictions on the range of the argument or on the precision that may be demanded in the result
how do you explain the worst case scenario for bubble sort and why
the worst situation for bubble sort is when the lists smallest element is in the last position in this situation the smallest element will move down one place on each pass through the list meaning that the sort will need to make the maximum number of passes through the list namely n  1
what do you mean by addition chain exponentiation
the classic ways to round numbers
Give an example of Rabbit problem in bubble sort.							
Array {6	1	2	3	4	 5} is almost sorted	 but it takes O(n) iterations to sort it. Element {6} is a rabbit. 	
define pollards kangaroo algorithm 
an algorithm for solving the discrete logarithm problem
define the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
how do you explain toddcoxeter algorithm
procedure for generating cosets
define the difference between logical address space and physical address space
logical address space specifies the address that is generated by cpu on the other hand physical address space specifies the address that is seen by the memory unit
What Are The Disadvantages Of Linear List?						
we cannot reach any of the nodes that precede node (p).	If a list is traversed	 the external pointer to the list must be persevered in order to reference the list again.						
Define Primary Data Structures?		
Primary data structures are the basic data structures that directly operate upon the machine instructions. All the basic constants (integers	 floating-point numbers	 character constants	string constants) and pointers are considered as primary data structures.				
Define Splay Tree?							
A splay tree is a binary search tree in which restructuring is done using a scheme called splay. The splay is a heuristic method which moves a given vertex v to the root of the splay tree using a sequence of rotations.							
how do you explain load sharing
processes are not assigned to a particular processor a global queue of threads is maintained each processor when idle selects a thread from this queue note that load balancing refers to a scheme where work is allocated to processors on a more permanent basis
how do you explain depth of a tree
depth of a tree the maximum number of levels in a tree is called the depth of a tree in other words depth of a tree is one more than maximum level of the tree the depth of a tree in above figure is 4
What Is A Spanning Tree?							
A spanning tree is a tree associated with a network. All the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once. A minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized.							
how do you explain introselect 
introselect short for introspective selection is a selection algorithm that is a hybrid of quickselect and median of medians which has fast average performance and optimal worstcase
What Is Cycle Stealing?
We encounter cycle stealing in the context of Direct Memory Access (DMA). Either the DMA controller can use the data bus when the CPU does not need it, or it may force the CPU to temporarily suspend operation. The latter technique is called cycle stealing. Note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle.
Binary searches can be done on an array[Yes/No]?							
Yes.							
what do you mean by ftdisk
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
how do you explain the purpose of an io status information
io status information provides information about which io devices are to be allocated for a particular process it also shows which files are opened and other io device state
define preemptive multitasking
preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs this in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes
define fragmentation tell about different types of fragmentation
when many of free blocks are too small to satisfy any request then fragmentation occurs external fragmentation and internal fragmentation are two types of fragmentation external fragmentation happens when a dynamic memory allocation algorithm allocates some memory and a small piece is left over that cannot be effectively used  internal fragmentation is the space wasted inside of allocated memory blocks because of restriction on the allowed sizes of allocated blocks
how do you explain schonhagestrassen algorithm 
the schnhagestrassen algorithm is an asymptotically fast multiplication algorithm for large integers 
define user data
modifiable part of user space may include program data user stack area and programs that may be modified
how do you explain bogosort 
it is a highly ineffective sorting algorithm based on the generate and test paradigm the function successively generates permutations of its input until it finds one that is sorted it is not useful for sorting but may be used for educational purposes to contrast it with more efficient algorithms
What is fragmentation?
Fragmentation is a phenomenon of memory wastage. It reduces the capacity and performance because space is used inefficiently.
State The Rules To Be Followed During Infix To Postfix Conversions?						
Fully parenthesize the expression starting from left to right. During parenthesizing	 the operators having higher precedence are first parenthesized.Move the operators one by one to their right	 such that each operator replaces their corresponding right parenthesis.	The part of the expression	 which has been converted into postfix is to be treated as single operand.	Once the expression is converted into postfix form	 remove all parenthesis.						
what do you mean by microkernel
it is kernel with a limited service that is with some important services runningexample qnxrealtime os
define reversedelete algorithm
the reversedelete algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory used to obtain a minimum spanning tree from a given connected edgeweighted graph
how do you explain exhaustive search
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
List out few of the Application of tree data-structure? 							
The manipulation of Arithmetic expression	  Symbol Table construction	  Syntax analysis. 					
What is nearest neighbour search
The arbitrarily oriented minimum bounding box is the minimum bounding box, calculated subject to no constraints as to the orientation of the result
What is User data
Modifiable part of user space. May include program data, user stack area, and programs that may be modified.
what do you mean by a simple graph
a simple graph is a graph which has not more than one edge between a pair of nodes than such a graph is called a simple graph
What are steps for preorder traversing a binary tree?							
The steps for preorder traversing a binary tree is as follows:Visit the root	Traverse the left sub-treeTraverse the right sub-tree							
what do you mean by dedicated processor assignment
provides implicit scheduling defined by assignment of threads to processors for the duration of program execution each program is allocated a set of processors equal in number to the number of threads in the program processors are chosen from the available pool
define warnsdorffs rule 
warnsdorfs rule is a heuristic for finding a knights tour
What do you mean by a process?
An executing program is known as process. There are two types of processes:Operating System Processes,User Processes
how do you explain quick sort algorithm 
quicksort sometimes called partitionexchange sort is an on log n efficient sorting algorithm serving as a systematic method for placing the elements of an array in order
What is tarjans strongly connected componets algorithms
Tarjan's algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory for finding the strongly connected components of a directed graph.
What Are The Disadvantages Of Circular List?							
We cant traverse the list backward.If a pointer to a node is given we cannot delete the node.							
What is the main purpose of an operating system?
There are two main purposes of an operating system.It is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activities.It provides an environment for the development and execution of programs. 
What is RR scheduling algorithm?
RR (round-robin) scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for time-sharing systems. A circular queue is a setup in such a way that the CPU scheduler goes around that queue, allocating CPU to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds.
how do you explain cliques 
a clique klik or klk is a subset of vertices of an undirected graph such that every two distinct vertices in the clique are adjacent that is its induced subgraph is complete
define hybrid kernel
it combines the aspect of both monolithic as well as a microkernelexample microsoft nt kernel
what is an edge?							
Edge: A link from the parent to the child node is referred to as edge. It is also known as a branch. A tree with n nodes has n-1 edges.							
Explain the concept of Reentrancy?
It is a useful, memory-saving technique for multiprogrammed timesharing systems. A Reentrant Procedure is one in which multiple users can share a single copy of a program during the same period. Reentrancy has 2 key aspects: The program code cannot modify itself, and the local data for each user process must be stored separately. Thus, the permanent part is the code, and the temporary part is the pointer back to the calling program and local variables used by that program. 
define a folder in ubuntu
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything included in your hardware is a file
What is shell sort
an attempt to improve insertion sort
What is addition chain exponentiation
the classic ways to round numbers
how do you explain an assembler
an assembler acts as a translator for low level language assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the assembler into machine language
When does the condition 'rendezvous' arise?
In message passing, it is the condition in which, both, the sender and receiver are blocked until the message is delivered.
What is bubble sort 
for each pair of indices, swap the items if out of order
What is Long term scheduler
Long term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing. It controls the degree of multiprogramming. Once admitted, a job becomes a process.
What Do You Mean By The Term "percolate Up"?					
To insert an element	 we have to create a hole in the next available heap location. Inserting an element in the hole would sometimes violate the heap order property	 so we have to slide down the parent into the hole. This strategy is continued until the correct location for the new element is found. This general strategy is known as a percolate up; the new element is percolated up the heap until the correct location is found.										
When Is A Graph Said To Be Weakly Connected?												
When a directedgraph is not strongly connected but the underlying graph is connected	 then the graph is said to be weakly connected.							
define cubic interpolation 
in numerical analysis a cubic hermite spline or cubic hermite interpolator is a spline where each piece is a thirddegree polynomial specified in hermite form1 that is by its values and first derivatives at the end points of the corresponding domain interval
what do you mean by smp
to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used in essence with smp any process or threads can be assigned to any processor
what do you mean by linked list 
linked list is one of the fundamental data structures it consists of a sequence of  nodes each containing arbitrary data fields and one or two links pointing to the next andor previous nodes a linked list is a selfreferential datatype because it contains a pointer or link to another data of the same type linked lists permit insertion and removal of nodes at any point in the list in constant time but do not allow random access
Name Two Algorithms Two Find Minimum Spanning Tree?							
Kruskals algorithm.Prims algorithm.							
define collision detection
check for the collision or intersection of two given solids
define multitasking
multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time however only one application is active at a time for user interaction although some applications can run behind the scene
what do you mean by impact of signed numbers on the memory
sign of the number is the first bit of the storage allocated for that number so you get one bit less for storing the number for example if you are storing an 8bit number without sign the range is 0255 if you decide to store sign you get 7 bits for the number plus one bit for the sign so the range is 128 to 127
how do you explain spanning tree 
in the mathematical field of graph theory a spanning tree t of an undirected graph g is a subgraph that is a tree which includes all of the vertices of g with minimum possible number of edges
what do you mean by dynamic time wrapping 
measure similarity between two sequences which may vary in time or speed
What is newton-raphson division
an algorithm used for the fast computation of large integer powers of a number
what do you mean by an operating system
the operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software it is the most important part of a computer system without it computer is just like a box 
what do you mean by the purpose of multitasking operating system
this operating system enables the user to simultaneously execute multiple tasks on a single processor the cpu in this case switches processes at a very fast pace and does it parallel
What Is Caching?
Caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process. A cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed.
define data structure
a data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored but also their relationship to each other advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data 
What Is Spooling?
Spooling is normally associated with printing. When different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time, spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer.
how do you explain the concept of reentrancy
it is a very useful memory saving technique that is used for multiprogrammed time sharing systems it provides functionality that multiple users can share a single copy of program during the same period it has two key aspectstthey are the program code cannot modify itselfthe local data for each user process must be stored separately 
What is chans algorithm 
is an optimal output-sensitive algorithm to compute the convex hull of a set points, in 2- or 3-dimensional space
how do you explain triangularisation 
a triangulation is a subdivision of a planar object into triangles and by extension the subdivision of a higherdimension geometric object into simplices
how do you explain sweep line algorithm 
plane sweep algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that uses a conceptual sweep line or sweep surface to solve various problems in euclidean space 
What is kernel? 
Kernel is the core and essential part of computer operating system that provides basic services for all parts of OS.
how do you explain busy waiting
the repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busywaiting the cpu is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period and the process does not progress toward completion
how do you explain process synchronization
a situation where several processes access and manipulate the same data concurrently and the outcome of the execution depends on the particular order in which the access takes place is called race condition to guard against the race condition we need to ensure that only one process at a time can be manipulating the same data the technique we use for this is called process synchronization
what do you mean by metaphone 
an algorithm for indexing words by their sound when pronounced in english
What is thrashing
Thrashing occurs when the processor is spending most of its time in swapping pages instead of executing the instructions.
what do you mean by lexicographic breadth search
a linear time algorithm for ordering the vertices of a graph
what do you mean by predictive search 
binarylike search which factors in magnitude of search term versus the high and low values in the search sometimes called dictionary search or interpolated search
Write The Importance Of Hashing?												
Maps key with the corresponding value using hash function.	Hash tables support the efficient addition of new entries and the time spent on searching for the required data is independent of the number of items stored.				
List Out The Advantages Of Using A Linked List?									
It is not necessary to specify the number of elements in a linked list during its declaration.	Linked list can grow and shrink in size depending upon the insertion and deletion that occurs in the list.	Insertions and deletions at any place in a list can be handled easily and efficiently.A linked list does not waste any memory space.							
While implementing the bubble sort algorithm	how many comparisons will performed in Pass 1?				
n - 1 comparisons.							
How Do You Assign An Address To An Element Of A Pointer Array ?							
We can assign a memory address to an element of a pointer array by using the address operator	 which is the ampersand (&)	 in an assignment statement such as ptemployee[0] = &projects[2];					
What Are Turnaround Time And Response Time?
Turnaround time is the interval between the submission of a job and its completion. Response time is the interval between submission of a request, and the first response to that request.
What is comparison sort
A comparison sort is a type of sorting algorithm that only reads the list elements through a single abstract comparison operation (often a "less than or equal to" operator or a three-way comparison) that determines which of two elements should occur first in the final sorted list. 
how do you explain cache memory
cache memory is random access memory ram that a computer microprocessor can access more quickly than it can access regular ram as the microprocessor processes data it looks first in the cache memory and if it finds the data there from a previous reading of data it does not have to do the more timeconsuming reading of data from larger memory
What is schreier-sims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set (BSGS) of a permutation group
how do you explain schensted algorithm 
constructs a pair of young tableaux from a permutation
How Does Swapping Result In Better Memory Management?
During regular intervals that are set by the operating system, processes can be copied from main memory to a backing store, and then copied back later. Swapping allows more processes to be run that can fit into memory at one time.
define bogosort 
it is a highly ineffective sorting algorithm based on the generate and test paradigm the function successively generates permutations of its input until it finds one that is sorted it is not useful for sorting but may be used for educational purposes to contrast it with more efficient algorithms
What is spooling?
Spooling is a process in which data is temporarily gathered to be used and executed by a device, program or the system. It is associated with printing. When different applications send output to the printer at the same time, spooling keeps these all jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer. 
how do you explain the difference between array and stack
stack follows lifo thus the item that is first entered would be the last removedin array the items can be entered or removed in any order basically each member access is done using index no strict order is to be followed here to remove a particular elementarray may be multidiamensional or onediamensional but stack should be onediamensional but both are linear data structure
What is quantum algorithm 
The term is usually used for those algorithms which seem inherently quantum,
what do you mean by rabinkarp string search algorithms 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
define rabinkarp string search algorithms 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
define maxcliquedyn maximum clique algorithm 
the maxcliquedyn algorithm is an algorithm for finding a maximum clique in an undirected graph 
What is modular square root 
computing square roots modulo a prime number
what do you mean by borweins algorithm 
an algorithm to calculate the value of 1p
how do you explain smp
smp is short for symmetric multiprocessing and is the most common type of multipleprocessor systems in this system each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another as needed
Give some simple example of algorithm 
One of the simplest algorithms is to find the largest number in a list of numbers of random order.
What is strongly connected components
In the mathematical theory of directed graphs, a graph is said to be strongly connected or diconnected if every vertex is reachable from every other vertex
define the purpose of an io status information
io status information provides information about which io devices are to be allocated for a particular process it also shows which files are opened and other io device state
define graph exploration algorithm
in computer science graph traversal also known as graph search refers to the process of visiting checking andor updating each vertex in a graph such traversals are classified by the order in which the vertices are visited 
define modular method
in this method modulus operation is applied on each key this involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division the remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value
what do you mean by an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
how do you explain average case performance of binary search
the average case performance of binary search is olog n
What is incremental heuristic search algorithm 
Incremental heuristic search algorithms combine both incremental and heuristic search to speed up searches of sequences of similar search problems, which is important in domains that are only incompletely known or change dynamically
define meant by strongly connected in a graph
an undirected graph is connected if there is a path from every vertex to every other vertex a directed graph with this property is called strongly connected
what do you mean by the worst case scenario for bubble sort and why
the worst situation for bubble sort is when the lists smallest element is in the last position in this situation the smallest element will move down one place on each pass through the list meaning that the sort will need to make the maximum number of passes through the list namely n  1
What Do You Mean By Disjoint Set Adt?									
A collection of non-empty disjoint sets S=S1	S2	.	Sk i.e;each Si is a non-empty set that has no element in common with any other Sj. In mathematical notation this is Si?Sj=?. Each set is identified by a unique element called its representative.					
define online algorithm 
an online algorithm is one that can process its input piecebypiece in a serial fashion ie in the order that the input is fed to the algorithm without having the entire input available from the beginning
define bubble sort 
for each pair of indices swap the items if out of order
how do you explain tree sort 
build binary tree then traverse it to create sorted list
What is borweins algorithm 
an algorithm to calculate the value of 1/p
What are steps for "in order" traversing a binary tree?							
The steps for in order traversing a binary tree are as follows:			Traverse the left subtreeVisit the root	Traverse the right subtree							
What are local and global page replacements?
Local replacement means that an incoming page is brought in only to the relevant process address space. Global replacement policy allows any page frame from any process to be replaced. The latter is applicable to variable partitions model only.
what do you mean by asymmetric clustering
in asymmetric clustering a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server that machine takes the active servers role should the server fails
what do you mean by reversedelete algorithm
the reversedelete algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory used to obtain a minimum spanning tree from a given connected edgeweighted graph
define nth root algorithm 
the principal root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
What Is Direct Access Method?
Direct Access method is based on a disk model of a file, such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records. It allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written. Direct access is 
what do you mean by a priority queue
the priority queue is a data structure in which the intrinsic ordering of the elements numeric or alphabetic determines the result of its basic operation it is of two typesthey are ascending priority queue here smallest item can be removed insertion is arbitrarydescending priority queue here largest item can be removed insertion is arbitrary
What are the reasons for process suspension?
Swapping,interactive user request,timing,parent process request
How do you define singly-linked list?							
Singly linked lists contain nodes which have a data field as well as a next field	 which points to the next node in the linked list.		A singly linked list whose nodes contain two fields: an integer value and a link to the next node.							
define asymmetric clustering
in asymmetric clustering a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server that machine takes the active servers role should the server fails
what do you mean by the use of threaded binary tree
in threaded binary tree the null pointers are replaced by some addresses the left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor
how do you explain preemptive multitasking
preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs this in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes
define the purpose of multiprogramming operating system
this acts to be an extension of batch os where main memory can have several jobs at once and they would be executed in a particular order at a particular time
When does trashing occur?
Thrashing specifies an instance of high paging activity. This happens when it is spending more time paging instead of executing.
define scsi
scsi  small computer systems interface is a type of interface used for computer components such as hard drives optical drives scanners and tape drives it is a competing technology to standard ide integrated drive electronics
What is sorting algorithm 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order.
What is geometric hashing 
a method for efficiently finding two-dimensional objects represented by discrete points that have undergone an affine transformation
How do you define singly-linked list?							
Singly linked lists contain nodes which have a data field as well as a next field	 which points to the next node in the linked list.	A singly linked list whose nodes contain two fields: an integer value and a link to the next node.							
Is non-pre-emptive scheduling frequently used in a computer? Why?
No, it is rarely used for the reasons mentioned as that It can not ensure that each user gets a share of CPU regularly. The idle time with this increases reducing the efficiency and overall performance of the system. It allows program to run indefinitely which means that other processes have to wait for very long.
how do you explain worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm
o1 auxiliary
What are the different types of Kernel?
Kernels are basically of two types. They are Monolithic Kernels-In this architecture of kernel, all the system services were packaged into a single system module which lead to poor maintainability and huge size of kernel. Microkernels - They follow the modular approach of architecture. Maintainability became easier with this model as only the concerned module is to be altered and loaded for every function. This model also keeps a tab on the ever growing code size of the kernel.
define a deadlock
it is a condition where a group of two or more waiting for the resources currently in use by other processes of the same groupin this situation every process is waiting for an event to be triggered by another process of the group since no thread can free up the resource a deadlock occurs and the application hangs
define busy waiting
the repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busywaiting the cpu is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period and the process does not progress toward completion
what do you mean by non comparison sort 
the sorting in which there is no comparison with adjacent elements
how do you explain bronkerbosch algorithm 
the bronkerbosch algorithm is an algorithm for finding maximal cliques in an undirected graph
what do you mean by a simple path
a path in a diagram inwhich the edges are distinct is called a simple path it is also called as edge simple
What is sorted lists 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order.
What is force-based algorithms
Force-directed graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aesthetically-pleasing way
define introsoft 
begin with quicksort and switch to heapsort when the recursion depth exceeds a certain level
how do you explain selection algorithm 
in computer science a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array such a number is called the kth order statistic
What are rings in Windows NT
Windows NT uses protection mechanism called rings provides by the process to implement separation between the user mode and kernel mode.
What Are The Categories Of Avl Rotations?								
Let A be the nearest ancestor of the newly inserted nod which has the balancing factor 2. Then the rotations can be classified into the following four categories		Left-Left The newly inserted node is in the left subtree of the left child of A.Right-Right The newly inserted node is in the right subtree of the right child of A.Left-Right The newly inserted node is in the right subtree of the left child of A.Right-Left The newly inserted node is in the left subtree of the right child of A.							
what do you mean by a linked list
a linked list is a linear collection of data elements called nodes where the linear order is given by pointers each node has two parts first part contain the information of the element second part contains the address of the next node in the list
define the worst case complexity of binary search
the worst case complexity of binary search is o1 
Give Some Benefits Of Multi Threaded Programming.?
There is an increased responsiveness to the user resource sharing within the process,economy and utilization of multiprocessing architecture.
Link between quantum computing  and quantum algorithm
It uses some essential feature of Quantum computing such as quantum superposition or quantum entanglement.
how do you explain beladys anomaly
beladys anomaly is also called fifo anomaly usually on increasing the number of frames allocated to a process virtual memory the process execution is faster because fewer page faults occur sometimes the reverse happens ie the execution time increases even when more frames are allocated to the process this is beladys anomaly this is true for certain page reference patterns
how do you explain user data
modifiable part of user space may include program data user stack area and programs that may be modified
State the advantages of segmented paging over pure segmentation?
In broad terms paging is a memory management technique that allows a physical address space of a process to be non-contiguous.Segmented paging does not have any source of external fragmentation.Since a segment existence is not restricted to a contiguous memory range it can be easily grown and does not have to adjust into a physical memory medium.With segmented paging the addition of an offset and a base is simpler as it is only an append operation instead of it being a full addition operation.
What is Kirkpatrick-seidel algorithm 
is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a set of points in the plane,
What is patience sorting
A variant of the algorithm efficiently computes the length of a longest increasing subsequence in a given array.
define the main purpose of an operating system
there are two main purposes of an operating systemit is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activitiesit provides an environment for the development and execution of programs 
define a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization it consists of a thread id program counter register set and a stack 
define a binary semaphore
binary semaphore takes only 0 and 1 as value and used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes 
how do you explain worst case efficiency of linear search
the best case efficiency of linear search is on
Give some examples of search and enumeration paradigms 
This category also includes search algorithms, branch and bound enumeration and backtracking
What is fibonacci search technique 
search a sorted sequence using a divide and conquer algorithm that narrows down possible locations with the aid of Fibonacci numbers
What is division algorithms 
for computing quotient and/or remainder of two numbers
how do you explain the minimum number of nodes in an avl tree of height h
the minimum number of nodes sh in an avl tree of height h is given by shsh1sh21 for h0 sh1
Bubble sort is used for large or small list.							
Bubble sort is used for small list.							
what do you mean by bitonic sorter 
bitonic mergesort is a parallel algorithm for sorting it is also used as a construction method for building a sorting network
Why Is Partitioning And Formatting A Prerequisite To Installing An Operating System?
Partitioning and formatting creates a preparatory environment on the drive so that the operating system can be copied and installed properly. This includes allocating space on the drive, designating a drive name, determining and creating the appropriate file system structure.
what do you mean by thrashing
it is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages rather than executing instructions this is due to an inordinate number of page faults
What is advantage of heuristic algorithm 
In principle, if run for an infinite amount of time, they will find the optimal solution. Their merit is that they can find a solution very close to the optimal solution in a relatively short time
how do you explain the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
Give some examples where binary search could be used?							
The examples of binary search are:		Number guessing gameWord lists	Applications to complexity theory							
What is boyer Moore hors pool algorithm 
Simplification of Boyer-Moore 
define dameraulaenshtein distance 
dameraulevenshtein distance compute a distance measure between two strings improves on levenshtein distance
what do you mean by boyer moore hors pool algorithm 
simplification of boyermoore 
Describe the Buddy system of memory allocation.
Free memory is maintained in linked lists, each of equal sized blocks. Any such block is of size 2^k. When some memory is required by a process, the block size of next higher order is chosen, and broken into two. Note that the two such pieces differ in address only in their kth bit. Such pieces are called buddies. When any used block is freed, the OS checks to see if its buddy is also free. If so, it is rejoined, and put into the original free-block linked-list.
how do you explain backward euler method 
in numerical analysis and scientific computing the backward euler method or implicit euler method is one of the most basic numerical methods for the solution of ordinary differential equations
Whether Linked List is linear or Non-linear data structure?  							
According to Access strategies Linked list is a linear one.  According to Storage Linked List is a Non-linear one. 							
What is dynamic time wrapping 
measure similarity between two sequences which may vary in time or speed
how do you explain heapnsort 
pick the smallest of the remaining elements add it to the end of the sorted list
How Can I Search For Data In A Linked List?							
Unfortunately the only way to search a linked list is with a linear search	because the only way a linked list's members can be accessed is sequentially. Sometimes it is quicker to take the data from a linked list and store it in a different data structure so that searches can be more efficient.					
What are iterative algorithms 
Iterative algorithms are loop based repetitions of a process
what do you mean by beam stack search
integrates backtracking with beam search
What is state space search 
State space search is a process used in the field of computer science, including artificial intelligence (AI), in which successive configurations or states of an instance are considered, with the intention of finding a goal state with a desired property.
What substring
A substring is a contiguous sequence of characters within a string. 
What is cache memory?
Cache memory is random access memory (RAM) that a computer microprocessor can access more quickly than it can access regular RAM. As the microprocessor processes data, it looks first in the cache memory and if it finds the data there (from a previous reading of data), it does not have to do the more time-consuming reading of data from larger memory.
What are necessary conditions which can lead to a deadlock situation in a system?
Deadlock situations occur when four conditions occur simultaneously in a system: Mutual exclusion; Hold and Wait; No preemption; and Circular wait.
how do you explain the basic function of paging
paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physicaladdress space of a process to be noncontiguous it avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store
What factors determine whether a detection-algorithm must be utilized in a deadlock avoidance system?
One is that it depends on how often a deadlock is likely to occur under the implementation of this algorithm. The other has to do with how many processes will be affected by deadlock when this algorithm is applied.
List Some Of The Static Data Structures In C?							
Some of the static data structures in C are arrays	 pointers	 structures etc.					
how do you explain hungarian algorithm 
algorithm for finding a perfect matching
What is SMP?
SMP stands for Symmetric MultiProcessing. It is the most common type of multiple processor system. In SMP, each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system, and these copies communicate with one another when required.
how do you explain data structure
a data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored but also their relationship to each other advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data
How does dynamic loading aid in better memory space utilization?
With dynamic loading, a routine is not loaded until it is called. This method is especially useful when large amounts of code are needed in order to handle infrequently occurring cases such as error routines.
What is the purpose of an I/O status information?
I/O status information provides information about which I/O devices are to be allocated for a particular process. It also shows which files are opened, and other I/O device state.
how do you explain the need for priority queue
in a multiuser environment the operating system scheduler must decide which of the several processes to run only for a fixed period of time one algorithm uses queue jobs are initially placed at the end of the queue the scheduler will repeatedly take the first job on the queue run it until either it finishes or its time limit is up and place it at the end of the queue if it does not finish this strategy is not appropriate because very short jobs will soon to take a long time because of the wait involved in the rungenerally it is important that short jobs finish as fast as possible so these jobs should have precedence over jobs that have already been running further more some jobs that are not short are still very important and should have precedence this particular application seems to require a special kind of queue known as priority queue priority queue is also called as heap or binary heap
What are read-write locks?
Read - write locks provide simultaneous read access to many threads while the write access stays with one thread at a time. They are especially useful in protecting the data that is not frequently written but read simultaneously by many threads. They are slower than mutexes.
define difference between micro kernel and macro kernel
micro kernel is a kernel which run services those are minimal for operating system performance in this kernel all other operations are performed by processormacro kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel in monolithic kernel all operating system code is in single executable image
what do you mean by user program
the instructions to be executed
How does the representation of a node in a doubly-linked list differ from that in a singly-linked list?							
Unlike singly-linked list	 in which each node stores the address of only the next node in the list	 each node in a doubly-linked list holds the address of its previous node also.					
define shortest common super sequence problem 
find the shortest supersequence that contains two or more sequences as subsequences
define a address register
address registers  contain main memory addresses of data and instructions or they contain a portion of the address that is used in the calculation of the complete addresses
how do you explain smp
to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used in essence with smp any process or threads can be assigned to any processor
define radix sort
sorts strings letter by letter
What is fuzzy algorithm 
Fuzzy logic is an approach to computing based on "degrees of truth" rather than the usual "true or false
what do you mean by hirschberhs algorithm
finds the least cost sequence alignment between two sequences as measured by their levenshtein distance
how do you explain the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
what do you mean by laplacian smoothing
an algorithm to smooth a polygonal mesh
Define Static Data Structures?				
A data structure formed when the number of data items are known in advance is referred as static data structure or fixed size data structure.
what is depth of a tree?							
Depth of a tree: The maximum number of levels in a tree is called the depth of a tree. In other words	 depth of a tree is one more than maximum level of the tree. The depth of a tree in above figure is 4						
What are steps for postorder traversing a binary tree?							
The steps for post order traversing a binary tree are as follows:			Traverse the left subtree			Traverse the right subtree		Visit the root							
define the meaning of export command in ubuntu
export is a command in bash shell language when you try to set a variable it is visible or exported to any subprocess started from that instance of bash  the variable will not exist in the subprocess without the export command
Write an algorithm for inserting node at the beginning of the doubly-linked list when list is not empty.						
Allocate memory for the new node.	Assign a value to the data field of the new node.	Make the next field of the new point to the first node in the list.	Make the prev field of START point to the new node.	Make the prev field of the new node point to NULL.	Make START point to the new node.							
what do you mean by chans algorithm 
is an optimal outputsensitive algorithm to compute the convex hull of a set points in 2 or 3dimensional space
Binary searches can be done on an array[Yes/No]?							
Yes.							
define precision
precision refers the accuracy of the decimal portion of a value precision is the number of digits allowed after the decimal point
Give examples of optimisation problems
Linear programming, dynamic programming the greedy method,method, the heuristic method
what do you mean by depth of a tree
depth of a tree the maximum number of levels in a tree is called the depth of a tree in other words depth of a tree is one more than maximum level of the tree the depth of a tree in above figure is 4
What Is A Folder In Ubuntu ?
There is no concept of Folder in Ubuntu. Everything including your hardware is a FILE.
how do you explain a process
a program in execution is called a processprocesses are of two types are operating system processes and user processes
How Is Any Data Structure Application Is Classified Among Files?							
A linked list application can be organized into a header file source file and main application file. The first file is the header file that contains the definition of the NODE structure and the LinkedList class definition. The second file is a source code file containing the implementation of member functions of the LinkedList class. The last file is the application file that contains code that creates and uses the LinkedList class.						
What is ternary search 
a technique for finding the minimum or maximum of a function that is either strictly increasing and then strictly decreasing or vice versa
how do you explain kernel 
kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system which provides basic services for all parts of the os
Differentiate between Complier and Interpreter?
An interpreter reads one instruction at a time and carries out the actions implied by that instruction. It does not perform any translation. But a compiler translates the entire instructions
define a queue
a queue is an ordered collection of items from which items may be deleted at one end front end and items inserted at the other end rear endit obeys fifo rule there is no limit to the number of elements a queue contains
how do you explain metaphone 
an algorithm for indexing words by their sound when pronounced in english
What is Bentley-ottmann algorithm 
the BentleyOttmann algorithm is a sweep line algorithm for listing all crossings in a set of line segments,
define newtonraphson division
an algorithm used for the fast computation of large integer powers of a number
Give an example of dynamic programming
For example, FloydWarshall algorithm,
how do you explain addition chain exponentiation
the classic ways to round numbers
Explain the concept of the Distributed systems?
Distributed systems work in a network. They can share the network resources, communicate with each other.
define toddcoxeter algorithm
procedure for generating cosets
what do you mean by longest increasing subsequence problem
find the longest increasing subsequence of a given sequence
what do you mean by a process
a program in execution is called a processprocesses are of two types are operating system processes and user processes
define quick sort algorithm 
quicksort sometimes called partitionexchange sort is an on log n efficient sorting algorithm serving as a systematic method for placing the elements of an array in order
Give some examples where recursive algorithms are used 
For example, tower of Hanoi is well understood using recursive implementation.
What is shortest path problem 
In graph theory, the shortest path problem is the problem of finding a path between two vertices (or nodes) in a graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized.
define the difference between micro kernel and macro kernel
micro kernel micro kernel is the kernel which runs minimal performance affecting services for operating system in micro kernel operating system all other operations are performed by processormacro kernel macro kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel
what do you mean by krauss matching wildcards algorithm
an opensource nonrecursive algorithm
define linear search 
finds an item in an unsorted sequence
What is process synchronization?
A situation, where several processes access and manipulate the same data concurrently and the outcome of the execution depends on the particular order in which the access takes place, is called race condition. To guard against the race condition we need to ensure that only one process at a time can be manipulating the same data. The technique we use for this is called process synchronization.
define smithwaterman algorithm 
find local sequence alignment
define dinics algorithm 
dinicsalgorithm is a strongly polynomial algorithm for computing the maximum flow in a flow network
what do you mean by the purpose of an io status information
io status information provides info about which io devices are to be allocated for a particular process it also shows which files are opened and other io device state
What is fragmentation? Tell about different types of fragmentation?
When many of free blocks are too small to satisfy any request then fragmentation occurs. External fragmentation and internal fragmentation are two types of fragmentation. External Fragmentation happens when a dynamic memory allocation algorithm allocates some memory and a small piece is left over that cannot be effectively used.  Internal fragmentation is the space wasted inside of allocated memory blocks because of restriction on the allowed sizes of allocated blocks.
how do you explain memorymanagement unit mmu
hardware device that maps virtual to physical address in mmu scheme the value in the relocation register is added to every address generated by a user process at the time it is sent to memorythe user program deals with logical addresses it never sees the real physical addresses
In An Avl Tree	At What Condition The Balancing Is To Be Done?						
If the pivotal value (or the Height factor) is greater than 1 or less than -1.							
what do you mean by timsort
adaptative algorithm derived from merge sort and insertion sort used in python 23 and up and java se 7
Explain What Is The Meaning Of export Command In Ubuntu?
Export is a command in Bash shell language, when you try to set a variable, it is visible or exported to any subprocess started from that instance of bash.  The variable will not exist in the sub-process without the export command.
what do you mean by minimum bounding box algorithm 
find the oriented minimum bounding box enclosing a set of points
what do you mean by johnsons algorithm 
all pairs shortest path algorithm in sparse weighted directed graph
What is pollards p-1 algorithm 
It is a special-purpose algorithm, meaning that it is only suitable for integers with specific types of factors; it is the simplest example of an algebraic-group factorisation algorithm.
What is sequence algorithms 
A sequence algorithm is an algorithm (1.2) that takes one or more linear sequences as inputs.
What is average case performance of binary search?							
The average case performance of binary search is O(log n).							
Is It Necessary To Sort A File Before Searching A Particular Item ?	
unless work is involved in searching a element than to sort and then extract then we dont go for sort.	If frequent use of the file is required for the purpose of retrieving specific element it is more efficient to sort the file.Thus it depends on situation.							
What is a deadlock?
It is a condition where a group of two or more waiting for the resources currently in use by other processes of the same group.In this situation every process is waiting for an event to be triggered by another process of the group. Since no thread can free up the resource a deadlock occurs and the application hangs.
how do you explain collision detection
check for the collision or intersection of two given solids
what do you mean by nonblocking minimal spanning switch
a nonblocking minimal spanning switch is a device that can connect n inputs to n outputs in any combination 
what do you mean by spanning tree 
in the mathematical field of graph theory a spanning tree t of an undirected graph g is a subgraph that is a tree which includes all of the vertices of g with minimum possible number of edges
define asymmetric clustering
in asymmetric clustering a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server that machine takes the active servers role should the server fails
What is Lagrange interpolation 
interpolation using Lagrange polynomials
Write The Disadvantages Of Separate Chaining?							
The elements are evenly distributed. Some elements may have more elements and some may not have anything.It requires pointers. This leads to slow the algorithm down a bit because of the time required to allocate new cells	 and also essentially requires the implementation of a second data structure.						
What is traveling salesman problem 
"Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route that visits each city and returns to the origin city?
what do you mean by a deadlock
it is a condition where a group of two or more waiting for the resources currently in use by other processes of the same groupin this situation every process is waiting for an event to be triggered by another process of the group since no thread can free up the resource a deadlock occurs and the application hangs
define brute force search
an exhaustive and reliable search method but computationally inefficient in many applications
What is the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm?							
The bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth.							
What is thrashing?
It is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages, rather than executing instructions. This is due to an inordinate number of page faults.
how do you explain a node class
a node class is a class that relies on the base class for services and implementation provides a wider interface to users than its base class relies primarily on virtual functions in its public interface depends on all its direct and indirect base class can be understood only in the context of the base class can be used as base for further derivation can be used to create objects a node class is a class that has added new services or functionality beyond the services inherited from its base class
What is the data structures used to perform recursion? 							
Stack. Because of its LIFO (Last In First Out) property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return. Recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls.   Every recursive function has its equivalent iterative (non-recursive) function. Even when such equivalent iterative procedures are written	 explicit stack is to be used.						
define hopcroft karp algorithm 
convert a bipartite graph to a maximum cardinality matching
define worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm
o1 auxiliary
define multitasking
multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time however only one application is active at a time for user interaction although some applications can run behind the scene
how do you explain synchronization what are the different synchronization mechanisms
synchronization means controlling access to a resource that is available to two or more threads or process different synchronization mechanisms are mutexsemaphoresmonitorscondition variables critical regions and read write locks
what do you mean by the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
define kernel
a kernel is the core of every operating system it connects applications to the actual processing of data it also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability
what is Gilbert-Johnson-keerthi distance algorithm 
determining the smallest distance between two convex shapes.
how do you explain delaunay triangularisation
delaunay triangulation also known as a delone triangulation for a given set p of discrete points in a plane is a triangulation dtp such that no point in p is inside the circumcircle of any triangle in dtp
what do you mean by algorithm design pattern 
techniques for designing and implementing algorithm designs are also called algorithm design patterns
what do you mean by asymmetric clustering
in asymmetric clustering a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server that machine takes the active servers role should the server fails
Describe The Objective Of Multi Programming.?
The main objective of multiprogramming is to have process running at all times. With this design, CPU utilization is said to be maximized.
define a node class
a node class is a class that relies on the base class for services and implementation provides a wider interface to users than its base class relies primarily on virtual functions in its public interface depends on all its direct and indirect base class can be understood only in the context of the base class can be used as base for further derivation can be used to create objects a node class is a class that has added new services or functionality beyond the services inherited from its base class
What Are The Disadvantages Of Representing A Stack Or Queue By A Linked List?							
A node in a linked list (info and next field) occupies more storage than a corresponding element in an array.Additional time spent in managing the available list.							
What is Dinics algorithm 
Dinicsalgorithm is a strongly polynomial algorithm for computing the maximum flow in a flow network.
what do you mean by convex hull
the convex hull or convex envelope or convex closure of a set x of points in the euclidean plane or in a euclidean space or more generally in an affine space over the reals is the smallest convex set that contains x
what do you mean by maximal cliques 
a maximal clique is a clique that cannot be extended by including one more adjacent vertex
define non comparison sort 
the sorting in which there is no comparison with adjacent elements
what do you mean by sweep line algorithm 
plane sweep algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that uses a conceptual sweep line or sweep surface to solve various problems in euclidean space 
how do you explain thrashing
it is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages rather than executing instructions this is due to an inordinate number of page faults
how do you explain chakravala method 
a cyclic algorithm to solve indeterminate quadratic equations including pells equation
What Is A Node Class?							
A node class is a class that relies on the base class for services and implementation provides a wider interface to users than its base class relies primarily on virtual functions in its public interface depends on all its direct and indirect base class can be understood only in the context of the base class can be used as base for further derivation can be used to create objects. A node class is a class that has added new services or functionality beyond the services inherited from its base class.				
define suffix trees
a suffix tree also called pat tree or in an earlier form position tree is a compressed trie containing all the suffixes of the given text as their keys and positions in the text as their values suffix trees allow particularly fast implementations of many important string operationsan opensource nonrecursive algorithm
how do you explain burst sort 
build a compact cache efficient burst trie and then traverse it to create sorted output
Define Internal Nodes?							
The nodes other than the root and the leaves are called internal nodes.							
how do you explain context switching
context is associated with each process encompassing all the information describing the current execution state of the processwhen the os saves the context of program that is currently running and restores the context of the next ready to run process it is called as context switching it is important for multitasking os
Explain the concept of the batched operating systems?  
In batched operating system the users gives their jobs to the operator who sorts the programs according to their requirements and executes them. This is time consuming but makes the CPU busy all the time.
define a daemon
daemon  disk and execution monitor is a process that runs in the background without users interaction they usually start at the booting time and terminate when the system is shut down
how do you explain chain search 
a recursive algorithm for determining roots of polynomials defined over a finite field
what do you mean by topological sort
finds linear order of nodes eg jobs based on their dependencies
what do you mean by shortest common super sequence problem 
find the shortest supersequence that contains two or more sequences as subsequences
what do you mean by polygon triangularisation 
decompose a polygon into a set of triangles
define the basic function of paging
paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physicaladdress space of a process to be noncontiguous it avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store
define semaphore
semaphore is a protected variable or abstract data type that is used to lock the resource being used the value of the semaphore indicates the status of a common resource
What is monolithic kernel?
A monolithic kernel is a kernel which includes all operating system code is in single executable image.
What is toom-cook algorithm
it, is a multiplication algorithm for large integers.
how do you explain the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
What is a folder in Ubuntu?
There is no concept of Folder in Ubuntu. Everything included in your hardware is a FILE.
What Necessary Conditions Can Lead To A Deadlock Situation In A System?
Deadlock situations occur when four conditions occur simultaneously in a system: Mutual exclusion; Hold and Wait; No preemption; and Circular wait.
what do you mean by system stack
each process has one or more lifo stacks associated with it used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system calls
define process synchronization
a situation where several processes access and manipulate the same data concurrently and the outcome of the execution depends on the particular order in which the access takes place is called race condition to guard against the race condition we need to ensure that only one process at a time can be manipulating the same data the technique we use for this is called process synchronization
what do you mean by an assembler
an assembler acts as a translator for low level language assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the assembler into machine language
how do you explain faugere f4 algorithm 
finds a grbner basis also mentions the f5 algorithm
define quantum algorithm 
the term is usually used for those algorithms which seem inherently quantum
what do you mean by the concept of demand paging
demand paging specifies that if an area of memory is not currently being used it is swapped to disk to make room for an applications need 
define gui
gui is short for graphical user interface it provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols people find it easier to interact with the computer when in a gui especially when using the mouse instead of having to remember and type commands users click on buttons to perform a process
define fordfulkerson algorithm 
computes the maximum flow in a graph
what do you mean by the translation lookaside buffer tlb
in a cached system the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the tlb that aids in faster lookup tlb contains those pagetable entries that have been most recently used normally each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses one to fetch appropriate pagetable entry and one to fetch the desired data using tlb 
how do you explain a device queue
a list of processes waiting for a particular io device is called device queue
What is SMP?
SMP is a short form of Symmetric Multi-Processing. It is the most common type of multiple-processor systems. In this system, each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system, and these copies communicate with one another as needed.
define nos
nos is short for network operating system it is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network including filefolder sharing
how do you explain jump and walk algorithm
an algorithm for point location in triangulations
how do you explain shifting nthroot algorithm 
digit by digit root extraction
What is  karatsuba algorithm 
The Karatsuba algorithm is a fast multiplication algorithm.
define the purpose of multiprocessing operating system
it is the ability where a user can execute multiple processes simultaneously on a multiprocessor system this utilizes more than one cpu at a time
What Is The Difference Between A Stack And An Array?							
Stack is a ordered collection of items.	Stack is a dynamic object whose size is constantly changing as items are pushed and popped.Stack may contain different data types.Stack is declared as a structure containing an array to hold the element of the stack	 and an integer to indicate the current stack top within the array. Array is an ordered collection of items.							Array is a static object i.e. no of item is fixed and is assigned by the declaration of the array.It contains same data types.Array can be home of a stack i.e. array can be declared large enough for maximum size of the stack.							
define primality tests
determining whether a given number is prime
How do heuristic algorithms work
These algorithms work by getting closer and closer to the optimal solution as they progress.
What is knapsack problem
The Knapsack problem is a problem where there is a set of given items. The goal of the problem is to pack the knapsack to get the maximum total value. Each item has some weight and some value. Total weight that we can carry is no more than some fixed number X. So, we must consider weights of items as well as their value.
what do you mean by memorymanagement unit mmu
hardware device that maps virtual to physical address in mmu scheme the value in the relocation register is added to every address generated by a user process at the time it is sent to memorythe user program deals with logical addresses it never sees the real physical addresses
what do you mean by fragmentation
fragmentation is a phenomenon of memory wastage it reduces the capacity and performance because space is used inefficiently
What are the parameters of Euclids algorithm 
By speed and compactness 
What Are The Notations Used In Evaluation Of Arithmetic Expressions Using Prefix And Postfix Forms?							
Polish and Reverse Polish notations.							
define sequence algorithms 
a sequence algorithm is an algorithm 12 that takes one or more linear sequences as inputs
What is tree sort 
build binary tree, then traverse it to create sorted list
What Do You Mean By Balanced Trees?							
Balanced trees have the structure of binary trees and obey binary search tree properties. Apart from these properties	 they have some special constraints	 which differ from one data structure to another. However	 these constraints are aimed only at reducing the height of the tree	 because this factor determines the time complexity.					Eg AVL trees	 Splay trees.													
What is the main use of dynamic programming
dynamic programming reduces the exponential nature of many problems to polynomial complexity
what do you mean by longest path problem
find a simple path of maximum length in a given graph
what do you mean by a socket
a socket is used to make connection between two applications endpoints of the connection are called socket
What are the necessary conditions for deadlock to occur?
At least one resource should be occupied in a non-sharable condition. A process holding at least one resource is waiting for more resources currently in use by other processes. It is not possible to pre-empt the resource. There exists a circular wait for processes.
define convex hull
the convex hull or convex envelope or convex closure of a set x of points in the euclidean plane or in a euclidean space or more generally in an affine space over the reals is the smallest convex set that contains x
how do you explain bankers algorithm
bankers algorithm is used to avoid deadlock it is the one of deadlockavoidance method it is named as bankers algorithm on the banking system where bank never allocates available cash in such a manner that it can no longer satisfy the requirements of all of its customers 
what do you mean by a node class
a node class is a class that relies on the base class for services and implementation provides a wider interface to users than its base class relies primarily on virtual functions in its public interface depends on all its direct and indirect base class can be understood only in the context of the base class can be used as base for further derivation can be used to create objects a node class is a class that has added new services or functionality beyond the services inherited from its base class
Write an algorithm for inserting a node at the beginning of the circular-linked list	 when the list is not empty.						
If the list is not empty	 the following algorithm is used to insert a node in the linked list.	Allocate a memory for a new node.Assign a value to the data field of the new node.							
how do you explain brute force 
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
Give example of linear programming
Graphical linear programming
how do you explain smp
smp stands for symmetric multiprocessing it is the most common type of multiple processor system in smp each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another when required
State The Difference Between Persistent And Ephemeral Data Structure?							
Persistent data structures are the data structures which retain their previous state and modifications can be done by performing certain operations on it. Eg) Stack Ephemeral data structures are the data structures which cannot retain its previous state. Eg) Queues.							
what do you mean by euclids algorithm
euclids algorithm to compute the greatest common divisor gcd
what do you mean by smp
smp is short for symmetric multiprocessing and is the most common type of multipleprocessor systems in this system each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another as needed
What is non comparison sort 
The sorting in which there is no comparison with adjacent elements
how do you explain floyd warshall algorithm 
solves the all pairs shortest path problem in a weighted directed graph
Why is a single serial port managed with a single interrupt-driven I/O but a front-end processor is managed using a polling I/O, such as a terminal concentrator?
If a polling loop is used it can greatly reduce the amount of load on the system by looping through without the requirement of I/O.Due to this reason interrupts are used for single ports as the frequency of I/O on such a port is less and can be managed effectively, whereas we use polling for multiple ports as the frequency of I/O increases and are of short durations which suits polling.
define randomised algorithms 
such algorithms make some choices randomly or pseudorandomly they can be very useful in finding approximate solutions for problems 
define the best case performance of selection sort
the best case performance of selection sort is on2
what do you mean by a compiler
a compiler is a program that takes a source code as an input and converts it into an object code during the compilation process the source code goes through lexical analysis parsing and intermediate code generation which is then optimized to give final output as an object code
Write an algorithm for inserting a node in a Singly-Linked list	 if list is empty .
Allocate memory for the new node.		Assign a value to the data field of the new node.	Make the next field of the new node point to NULL.	Make START point to the new node							
how do you explain average case performance of binary search
the average case performance of binary search is olog n
What is kruscals algorithm
Kruskal's algorithm is a minimum-spanning-tree algorithm which finds an edge of the least possible weight that connects any two trees in the forest
What is best case performance of bubble sort algorithm?							
The best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is O(n).							
what do you mean by dualmode operation
in order to protect the operating systems and the system programs from the malfunctioning programs the two mode operations were evolvedsystem mode and user mode
Write an algorithm to search for an employee ID in an array(Hint: use linear search)							
Read the employee ID to be searched			Set i=0			Repeat step d until i>n or arr[i]=employee ID		Increment i by 1		If i>n : Display "Not found"			Else Display "Found"							
what do you mean by the best page size when designing an operating system
the best paging size varies from system to system so there is no single best when it comes to page size there are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size such as page table paging time and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system
what do you mean by fragmentation
fragmentation is memory wasted it can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixedsized allocation units or external if we are dealing with systems that have variablesized allocation units
What Does Isempty() Member Method Determines?					
isEmpty() checks if the stack has at least one element. This method is called by Pop() before retrieving and returning the top element.					
Define Graph?							
A graph G consist of a nonempty set V which is a set of nodes of the graph	 a set E which is the set of edges of the graph	 and a mapping from the set for edge E to a set of pairs of elements of V. It can also be represented as G=(V	 E).				
what do you mean by logical and physical addresses space
logical address space is generated from cpu it bound to a separate physical address space is central to proper memory management physical address space is seen by the memory unit logical address space is virtual address space both these address space will be same at compile time but differ at execution time
What is relative path?
Absolute path is Exact path from root directory.
how do you explain topological sort 
a topological sort or topological ordering of a directed graph is a linear ordering of its vertices such that for every directed edge uv from vertex u to vertex v u comes before v in the ordering
Parenthesis Is Never Required In Postfix Or Prefix Expressions	 Why?						
Parenthesis is not required because the order of the operators in the postfix /prefix expressions determines the actual order of operations in evaluating the expression.		
how do you explain a deadlock
it is a condition where a group of two or more waiting for the resources currently in use by other processes of the same groupin this situation every process is waiting for an event to be triggered by another process of the group since no thread can free up the resource a deadlock occurs and the application hangs
When does thrashing occur?
Thrashing refers to an instance of high paging activity. This happens when it is spending more time paging instead of executing.
define response time
this is the time elapsed from when a process is submitted until a useful output is obtained
What is line segment intersection
finding whether lines intersect, usually with a sweep line algorithm
what do you mean by sequence sorting 
sorting the data in a sequence 
how do you explain process spawning
when the os at the explicit request of another process creates a process this action is called process spawning
how do you explain meant by armstickiness
if one or a few processes have a high access rate to data on one track of a storage disk then they may monopolize the device by repeated requests to that track this generally happens with most common device scheduling algorithms lifo sstf cscan etc highdensity multisurface disks are more likely to be affected by this than low density ones
define modular method
in this method modulus operation is applied on each key this involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division the remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value
Give some examples of divide and conquer algorithms 
An example of a decrease and conquer algorithm is the binary search algorithm
What is difference between micro kernel and macro kernel?
Micro kernel is a kernel which run services those are minimal for operating system performance. In this kernel all other operations are performed by processor.Macro Kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel. In monolithic kernel all operating system code is in single executable image.
define constant time 
constant time if the time needed by the algorithm is the same regardless of the input size eg an access to an array element
What is Rabin-karp string search algorithms 
amortized linear (sublinear in most times) algorithm for substring search
how do you explain the resident set and working set of a process
resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in realmemory at a particular instant working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution relate this to the variablewindow size method for swapping techniques
how do you explain precision
precision refers the accuracy of the decimal portion of a value precision is the number of digits allowed after the decimal point
What kind of operations is possible on a semaphore?
Two kinds of operations are possible on a semaphore - 'wait' and 'signal'.
define a simple graph
a simple graph is a graph which has not more than one edge between a pair of nodes than such a graph is called a simple graph
what do you mean by toomcook algorithm
it is a multiplication algorithm for large integers
To represent an arithmetic expression binary tree uses three notations which are those notations?							
To represent an arithmetic expression binary tree uses three notations those are: Infix notation	Prefix notation	Postfix notation							
how do you explain jarowinkler distance 
it is a measure of similarity between two strings
what do you mean by unrestricted algorithm 
an unrestricted algorithm is an algorithm for the computation of a mathematical function that puts no restrictions on the range of the argument or on the precision that may be demanded in the result
What is maxcliquedyn maximum clique algorithm 
The MaxCliqueDyn algorithm is an algorithm for finding a maximum clique in an undirected graph. 
how do you explain the basic function of paging
paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physical address space of a process to be noncontiguous it avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store
What is pancake sorting 
Pancake sorting is the colloquial term for the mathematical problem of sorting a disordered stack of pancakes in order of size when a spatula can be inserted at any point in the stack and used to flip all pancakes above it.
what do you mean by soundex
soundex is a phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound
define spooling
spooling is normally associated with printing when different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer
what do you mean by euclidean minimum spanning tree 
algorithms for computing the minimum spanning tree of a set of points in the plane
what do you mean by  dispatcher
dispatcher module gives control of the cpu to the process selected by the shortterm scheduler this involves switching context switching to user mode jumping to the proper location in the user program to restart that program dispatch latency  time it takes for the dispatcher to stop one process and start another running
how do you explain comb sort 
the basic idea is to eliminate turtles or small values near the end of the list
define set division
compute elementary functions using a table of logarithms
define soundex 
phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound as pronounced in english
define the need for path compression
path compression is performed during a find operation suppose if we want to perform findx then the effect of path compression is that every node on the path from x to the root has its parent changed to the root
What Is The Difference Between Array And Stack?							
STACK follows LIFO. Thus the item that is first entered would be the last removed.In array the items can be entered or removed in any order. Basically each member access is done using index. No strict order is to be followed here to remove a particular element.	Array may be multidiamensional or onediamensional but stack should be onediamensional. but both are linear data structure.	
define the concept of reentrancy
it is a very useful memory saving technique that is used for multiprogrammed time sharing systems it provides functionality that multiple users can share a single copy of program during the same period it has two key aspectstthey are the program code cannot modify itselfthe local data for each user process must be stored separately 
Define Non-terminal Nodes In A Tree?								
All intermediate nodes that traverse the given tree from its root node to the terminal nodes are referred as non-terminal nodes.								
define exponential time
exponential time if the time is an exponential function of the input size eg bruteforce search
What is User program
The instructions to be executed.
how do you explain thrashing
it is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages rather than executing instructions this is due to an inordinate number of page faults
what do you mean by absolute path
relative path is relative to the current path
What Is Virtual Memory?
Virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory. This is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory.
what do you mean by spooling
spooling is normally associated with printing when different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer
how do you explain euclidean shortest path problem 
find the shortest path between two points that does not intersect any obstacle
define iterative deepening depthfirst search
a state space search strategy
Which are the various variants of binary tree?							
Various variants of binary tree are:		Strictly binary tree: A binary tree is said to be strictly binary if every node	 except for the leaf nodes	 have non-empty left and right children.					
What do you know about a Pipe? When is it used?
It is an IPC mechanism used for one way communication between two processes which are related. A single process doesn't need to use pipe. It is used when two process wish to communicate one-way.
What is semaphore?
Semaphore is a protected variable or abstract data type that is used to lock the resource being used. The value of the semaphore indicates the status of a common resource.
What Are The Collision Resolution Methods?							
Separate chaining or External hashing.Open addressing or Closed hashing.							
define rr scheduling algorithm
rr roundrobin scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for timesharing systems a circular queue is a setup in such a way that the cpu scheduler goes around that queue allocating cpu to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds
What is Executive in Windows NT?
In Windows NT, executive refers to the operating system code that runs in kernel mode.
State one advantage of a Huffman tree.							
A Huffman tree helps assign variable length codes to the characters in a message. It also ensures that the character codes have the prefix property.							
how do you explain soundex
soundex is a phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound
what do you mean by fischeryates shuffle
randomly shuffle a finite set
What is a daemon?
Daemon is a program that runs in the background without users interaction. A daemon runs in a multitasking operating system like UNIX. A daemon is initiated and controlled by special programs known as processes.
What is data structure?							
A data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored	 but also their relationship to each other. Advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data. 						
how do you explain polygon triangularisation 
decompose a polygon into a set of triangles
What is constant time 
Constant time: if the time needed by the algorithm is the same, regardless of the input size. E.g. an access to an array element
Give some examples where binary search could be used?							
The examples of binary search are:Number guessing game Word listsApplications to complexity theory							
define aging in operating system
aging is a technique used to avoid the starvation in resource scheduling system
What is brute force 
This is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best.
what do you mean by the need for priority queue
in a multiuser environment the operating system scheduler must decide which of the several processes to run only for a fixed period of time one algorithm uses queue jobs are initially placed at the end of the queue the scheduler will repeatedly take the first job on the queue run it until either it finishes or its time limit is up and place it at the end of the queue if it does not finish this strategy is not appropriate because very short jobs will soon to take a long time because of the wait involved in the rungenerally it is important that short jobs finish as fast as possible so these jobs should have precedence over jobs that have already been running further more some jobs that are not short are still very important and should have precedence this particular application seems to require a special kind of queue known as priority queue priority queue is also called as heap or binary heap
what do you mean by incremental heuristic search algorithm 
incremental heuristic search algorithms combine both incremental and heuristic search to speed up searches of sequences of similar search problems which is important in domains that are only incompletely known or change dynamically
how do you explain borweins algorithm 
an algorithm to calculate the value of 1p
how do you explain beam stack search
integrates backtracking with beam search
What is Bailey-borwein plouffe formula
a spigot algorithm for the computation of the nth binary digit of p
how do you explain shortest common super sequence problem 
find the shortest supersequence that contains two or more sequences as subsequences
how do you explain linked list 
linked list is one of the fundamental data structures it consists of a sequence of  nodes each containing arbitrary data fields and one or two links pointing to the next andor previous nodes a linked list is a selfreferential datatype because it contains a pointer or link to another data of the same type linked lists permit insertion and removal of nodes at any point in the list in constant time but do not allow random access
define long term scheduler
long term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing it controls the degree of multiprogramming once admitted a job becomes a process
define oddeven sort
a relatively simple sorting algorithm developed originally for use on parallel processors with local interconnections 
what do you mean by graham scan 
grahams scan is a method of finding the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane with time complexity on log n
what do you mean by throughput turnaround time waiting time and response time
throughput  number of processes that complete their execution per time unitturnaround time  amount of time to execute a particular processwaiting time  amount of time a process has been waiting in the ready queueresponse time  amount of time 
What Is Root Partition?
Root partition is where the operating system kernel is located. It also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time.
What are real-time systems?
Real-time systems are used when rigid time requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor. It has well defined and fixed time constraints.
what is a internal node?							
nternal Node: An intermediate node between the root and the leaf nodes is called an internal node. It is also referred to as a non terminal node. In preceding figure	 nodes 7	3	6 and 9 are internal nodes				
what do you mean by tarjans strongly connected componets algorithms
tarjans algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory for finding the strongly connected components of a directed graph
How do you classify algorithms as optimisation problems 
an optimization problem is the problem of finding the best solution from all feasible solutions. 
What is Karger-stein algorithm 
Karger's algorithm is a randomized algorithm to compute a minimum cut of a connected graph.
define time sharing system
in a timesharing system the cpu executes multiple jobs by switching among them also known as multitasking this process happens so fast that users can interact with each program while it is running
how do you explain randomised algorithms 
such algorithms make some choices randomly or pseudorandomly they can be very useful in finding approximate solutions for problems 
how do you explain page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
how do you explain nonblocking minimal spanning switch
a nonblocking minimal spanning switch is a device that can connect n inputs to n outputs in any combination 
how do you explain quantum algorithm 
the term is usually used for those algorithms which seem inherently quantum
how do you explain response time
this is the time elapsed from when a process is submitted until a useful output is obtained
What is Marshalling?
The process of packaging and sending interface method parameters across thread or process boundaries.
Minimum Number Of Queues Needed To Implement The Priority Queue?							
Two. One queue is used for actual storing of data and another for storing priorities.							
Explain Euclids algorithm.
"Given two numbers not prime to one another, to find their greatest common measure". He defines "A number [to be] a multitude composed of units": a counting number, a positive integer not including zero. To "measure" is to place a shorter measuring length s successively (q times) along longer length l until the remaining portion r is less than the shorter length s.[ In modern words, remainder r = l - qs, q being the quotient, or remainder r is the "modulus", the integer-fractional part left over after the division.
define transitive closure 
find the transitive closure of a given binary relation
what do you mean by galegaleshapely algorithm
solves the stable marriage problem
what do you mean by index calculus algorithm 
the index calculus algorithm is a probabilistic algorithm for computing discrete logarithms
how do you explain a library
it is a file which contains object code for subroutines and data to be used by the other program
define path based strong component algorithm 
in graph theory the strongly connected components of a directed graph may be found using an algorithm that uses depthfirst search in combination with two stacks one to keep track of the vertices in the current component and the second to keep track of the current search path
define a named pipe
a traditional pipe is unnamed and can be used only for the communication of related process if unrelated processes are required to communicate  named pipes are required it is a pipe whose access point is a file available on the file system when this file is opened for reading a process is granted access to the reading end of the pipe similarly when the file is opened for writing the process is granted access to writing end of the pipe a named pipe is also referred to as fifo or named fifo
how do you explain unrestricted algorithm 
an unrestricted algorithm is an algorithm for the computation of a mathematical function that puts no restrictions on the range of the argument or on the precision that may be demanded in the result
what do you mean by relative path
absolute path is exact path from root directory
define hungarian algorithm 
algorithm for finding a perfect matching
define polygon triangularisation 
decompose a polygon into a set of triangles
define truncation method
this method is used to compute the address of a record in this method a part of the numeric key is considered as an offset address of the corresponding record
what do you mean by a realtime system
realtime system is used in the case when rigidtime requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor it contains a well defined and fixed time constraints
how do you explain dijkstras algorithm
dijkstras algorithm is an algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph which may represent
how do you explain point set registration algorithms
finds the transformation between two point sets to optimally align them
how do you explain selection sorts
convert the list into a heap keep removing the largest element from the heap and adding it to the end of the list
how do you explain a thread
a thread is a program line under execution thread sometimes called a lightweight process is a basic unit of cpu utilization it comprises a thread id a program counter a register set and a stack
What are Real-time Systems?
Real-time systems are used when rigid time requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor. It has well defined and fixed time constraints.
define cascading termination
if one process is terminated its related processes are also terminated abnormally then it is called cascade terminationit occurs in the case of parent child processif the parent process is terminated normally or abnormally then all its child processes must be terminatedthe parent is existing and the operating system does not allow a child to continue if its parent terminatesthis child process is the new process created by the process called the parent process
how do you explain ternary search 
a technique for finding the minimum or maximum of a function that is either strictly increasing and then strictly decreasing or vice versa
What is a binary Semaphore?
Binary semaphore takes only 0 and 1 as value and used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes. 
what do you mean by brute force search
an exhaustive and reliable search method but computationally inefficient in many applications
how do you explain forcebased algorithms
forcedirected graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aestheticallypleasing way
What is System Stack
Each process has one or more LIFO stacks associated with it. Used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system calls.
Write algorithm for inserting node at the beginning of Singly-Linked list	 if list is not empty .						
To insert a node at the beginning of the linked list algorithm is:	Allocate memory for the new node. Assign value to the data field of the new node.							
define ftdisk
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
define gang scheduling
a set of related threads is scheduled to run on a set of processors at the same time on a 1to1 basis closely related threads  processes may be scheduled this way to reduce synchronization blocking and minimize process switching group scheduling predated this strategy
What is Hybrid Kernel:
It combines the aspect of both monolithic as well as a microkernel.Example: Microsoft NT kernel
how do you explain a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization in general a thread is composed of a thread id program counter register set and the stack
how do you explain jump point search
an optimization to a which may reduce computation time by an order of magnitude using further heuristics
what do you mean by bankers algorithm
bankers algorithm is used to avoid deadlock it is the one of deadlockavoidance method it is named as bankers algorithm on the banking system where bank never allocates available cash in such a manner that it can no longer satisfy the requirements of all of its customers 
define breadthfirst search 
breadthfirst search bfs is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures
define starvation and aging
starvation is resource management problem where a process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processesaging is a technique to avoid starvation in a scheduling system
how do you explain system stack
each process has one or more lifo stacks associated with it used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system calls
What is Boyer Moore string search algorithm 
amortized linear (sublinear in most times) algorithm for substring search
what do you mean by spectral layout 
spectral layout is a class of algorithm for drawing graphs
how do you explain bkm algorithm 
for computing a numbers multiplicative inverse reciprocal
what do you mean by rounding functions
the principal nth root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
what do you mean by smp
smp is a short form of symmetric multiprocessing it is the most common type of multipleprocessor systems in this system each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another as needed
define smp
smp is a short form of symmetric multiprocessing it is the most common type of multipleprocessor systems in this system each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another as needed
what do you mean by polling hellman algorithm
is a specialpurpose algorithm for computing discrete logarithms in a finite abelian group whose order is a smooth integer
how do you explain a folder in ubuntu
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything included in your hardware is a file
define jump and walk algorithm
an algorithm for point location in triangulations
how do you explain a realtime system
realtime system is used in the case when rigidtime requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor it contains a well defined and fixed time constraints
What Are The Tasks Performed During Postorder Traversal?							
Traverse the left sub-tree.	Traverse the right sub-tree.Process the root node.							
how do you explain a drawback of mvt
it does not have the features like ability to support multiple processorsvirtual storagesource level debuggingwhen the os at the explicit request of another process creates a process this action is called process spawning
What Is Dangling Pointer And How To Avoid It?							
After a call to free(p) makes a subsequent reference to *p illegal	 i.e. though the storage to p is freed but the value of p(address) remain unchanged .so the object at that address may be used as the value of *p (i.e. there is no way to detect the illegality).Here p is called dangling pointer.To avoid this it is better to set p to NULL after executing free(p).The null pointer value doesnt reference a storage location it is a pointer that doesnt point to anything.							
What is SMP?
To achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used. In essence, with SMP any process or threads can be assigned to any processor.
What is synchronization? What are the different synchronization mechanisms?
Synchronization means controlling access to a resource that is available to two or more threads or process. Different synchronization mechanisms are Mutex,Semaphores,Monitors,Condition variables Critical regions and Read/ Write locks
What are the types of Collision Resolution Techniques and the methods used in each of the type?							
Open addressing (closed hashing)	 The methods used include:   Overflow block	  Closed addressing (open hashing) The methods used include: Linked list	 Binary tree 				
What is selection sorts
convert the list into a heap, keep removing the largest element from the heap and adding it to the end of the list
What are the reasons for process suspension?
The reasons are swapping,interactive user request,timing, parent process request
List The Applications Of Set Adt?						
Maintaining a set of connected components of a graph.Maintain list of duplicate copies of web pages.	Constructing a minimum spanning tree for a graph.				Define An Equivalence Relation?							
What is a real-time system?
Real-time system is used in the case when rigid-time requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor. It contains a well defined and fixed time constraints.
define a daemon
daemon is a program that runs in the background without users interaction a daemon runs in a multitasking operating system like unix a daemon is initiated and controlled by special programs known as processes
what do you mean by worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm
o1 auxiliary
define the relationship between a queue and its underlying array
data stored in a queue is actually stored in an array two indexes front and end will be used to identify the start and end of the queuewhen an element is removed front will be incremented by 1 in case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0 then it will be checked with end if it is greater than end queue is emptywhen an element is added end will be incremented by 1 in case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0 after incrementing it will be checked with front if they are equal queue is full
how do you explain merge sort 
sort the first and second half of the list separately then merge the sorted lists
what do you mean by virtual memory
virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory this is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory
how do you explain nth root algorithm 
the principal root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
how do you explain sorted lists 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order
What is graph exploration algorithm
In computer science, graph traversal (also known as graph search) refers to the process of visiting (checking and/or updating) each vertex in a graph. Such traversals are classified by the order in which the vertices are visited. 
What is the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 Queens problem							
Backtracking 																												
what do you mean by virtual memory
virtual memory is hardware technique where the system appears to have more memory that it actually does this is done by timesharing the physical memory and storage parts of the memory one disk when they are not actively being used
define pancake sorting 
pancake sorting is the colloquial term for the mathematical problem of sorting a disordered stack of pancakes in order of size when a spatula can be inserted at any point in the stack and used to flip all pancakes above it
how do you explain an acyclic graph
a simple diagram which does not have any cycles is called an acyclic graph
how do you explain the idea behind splaying
splaying reduces the total accessing time if the most frequently accessed node is moved towards the root it does not require to maintain any information regarding the height or balance factor and hence saves space and simplifies the code to some extent
how do you explain constant time 
constant time if the time needed by the algorithm is the same regardless of the input size eg an access to an array element
What is christofides algorithm
The Christofides algorithm is an algorithm for finding approximate solutions to the travelling salesman problem,
what do you mean by a virtual memory
virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory this is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory
define ruperts algorithm 
create quality delaunay triangulations
define system stack
each process has one or more lifo stacks associated with it used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system callsprocess control block pcb info needed by the os to control processes
how do you explain shortest path problem 
in graph theory the shortest path problem is the problem of finding a path between two vertices or nodes in a graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized
what do you mean by kasanes algorithm
finds maximum subarray of any size
what do you mean by context switching
context is associated with each process encompassing all the information describing the current execution state of the processwhen the os saves the context of program that is currently running and restores the context of the next ready to run process it is called as context switching it is important for multitasking os
What is Floyds cycle-finding algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations
What Do You Mean By Balance Factor Of A Node In Avl Tree?							
The height of left subtree minus height of right subtree is called balance factor of a node in AVL tree.The balance factor may be either 0 or +1 or -1.The height of an empty tree is -1.	
List Out Few Of The Application Of Tree Data-structure?							
The manipulation of Arithmetic expression Symbol Table construction & Syntax analysis.						
how do you explain impact of signed numbers on the memory
sign of the number is the first bit of the storage allocated for that number so you get one bit less for storing the number for example if you are storing an 8bit number without sign the range is 0255 if you decide to store sign you get 7 bits for the number plus one bit for the sign so the range is 128 to 127
define quick hull
quickhull is a method of computing the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane
Explain the meaning of mutex.
Mutex is the short form for Mutual Exclusion object. A mutex allows multiple threads for sharing the same resource. The resource can be file. A mutex with a unique name is created at the time of starting a program. A mutex must be locked from other threads, when any thread that needs the resource. When the data is no longer used / needed, the mutex is set to unlock.
In binary search algorithm	 after every search operation	 the search gets reduced by ______?					
In binary search algorithm	 after every search operation	 the search gets reduced by 1/4.					
how do you explain the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
What Do You Mean By Quadratic Probing?													
Quadratic probing is an open addressing collision resolution strategy in which F(i)=i2. There is no guarantee of finding an empty cell once the table gets half full if the table size is not prime. This is because at most half of the table can be used as alternative locations to resolve collisions.							
define bronkerbosch algorithm 
the bronkerbosch algorithm is an algorithm for finding maximal cliques in an undirected graph
What Are The Advantages Of A Multiprocessor System?
With an increased number of processors, there is considerable increase in throughput. It can also save more money because they can share resources. Finally, overall reliability is increased as well.
define a semaphore
a semaphore is a hardware or a software tag variable whose value indicates the status of a common resource its purpose is to lock the common resource being used a process which needs the resource will check the semaphore to determine the status of the resource followed by the decision for proceeding in multitasking operating systems the activities are synchronized by using the semaphore techniques
what do you mean by plumbing  piping
it is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another for example instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen it can be piped and sent to a file or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy
define fischeryates shuffle
randomly shuffle a finite set
how do you explain graph exploration algorithm
in computer science graph traversal also known as graph search refers to the process of visiting checking andor updating each vertex in a graph such traversals are classified by the order in which the vertices are visited 
what do you mean by pancake sorting 
pancake sorting is the colloquial term for the mathematical problem of sorting a disordered stack of pancakes in order of size when a spatula can be inserted at any point in the stack and used to flip all pancakes above it
define gausslegendre algorithm 
computes the digits of pi
define a linked list
a linked list is a linear collection of data elements called nodes where the linear order is given by pointers each node has two parts first part contain the information of the element second part contains the address of the next node in the list
how do you explain cipollas algorithm 
cipollas algorithm is a technique for solving a congruence of the form
define dram  
dynamic ram stores the data in the form of capacitance and static ram stores the data in voltages
What Is Precision?							
Precision refers the accuracy of the decimal portion of a value. Precision is the number of digits allowed after the decimal point.							
What Do You Mean By Union-by-weight?							
Keep track of the weight that is size of each tree and always append the smaller tree to the larger one when performing UNION.																			
what do you mean by spigot algorithm 
a way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
what do you mean by plumbingpiping
it is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another for example instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen it can be piped and sent to a file or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy
Explain how you can reset Unity Configuration?
To reset the unity configuration the simplest way to do is to hit open a Terminal or hit Atl-F2  and run the command # unity reset
what do you mean by the relationship between a queue and its underlying array
data stored in a queue is actually stored in an array two indexes front and end will be used to identify the start and end of the queuewhen an element is removed front will be incremented by 1 in case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0 then it will be checked with end if it is greater than end queue is emptywhen an element is added end will be incremented by 1 in case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0 after incrementing it will be checked with front if they are equal queue is full
what do you mean by continuous algorithms 
an algorithm operating on data that represents continuous quantities even though this data is represented by discrete approximationssuch algorithms are studied in numerical analysis or
Define Path In A Graph?							
The path in a graph is the route taken to reach terminal node from a starting node.						
how do you explain galegaleshapely algorithm
solves the stable marriage problem
What Is Demand Paging?
Demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the RAM, then the OS brings the missing(and required) pages from the disk into the RAM.
what do you mean by kernel
kernel is the core of every operating system it connects applications to the actual processing of data it also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability
what do you mean by cantorzassenhaus algorithm 
factor polynomials over finite fields
how do you explain birkhoff interpolation 
an extension of polynomial interpolation
define state space search 
state space search is a process used in the field of computer science including artificial intelligence ai in which successive configurations or states of an instance are considered with the intention of finding a goal state with a desired property
What Is The Use Of Threaded Binary Tree?								
In threaded binary tree	 the NULL pointers are replaced by some addresses. The left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor.	
What is schensted algorithm 
constructs a pair of Young tableaux from a permutation
How traversing is done in a binary tree?							
Traversing a tree refers to the process of visiting all the nodes of the tree once. There are three ways in which traversing is done such as	Inorder	Preorder	Postorder							
What Is Plumbing / Piping?
It is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another. For example, instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen, it can be piped and sent to a file, or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy.
Explain compaction.
During the process of loading and removal of process into and out of the memory, the free memory gets broken into smaller pieces. These pieces lie scattered in the memory. Compaction means movement of these pieces close to each other to form a larger chunk of memory which works as a resource to run larger processes.
how do you explain sequence sorting 
sorting the data in a sequence 
define the use of behavior tab in ubuntu
through behaviors tab you can make many changes on the appearance of the desktopautohide the launcher you can use this option to reveal the launcher when moving the pointer to the defined hot spotenable workspaces  by checking this option you can enable workspaceadd show desktop icon to the launcher this option is used to display the desktop icon on the launcher
define level set method 
a numerical technique for tracking interfaces and shapes
what do you mean by merge sort 
sort the first and second half of the list separately then merge the sorted lists
how do you explain index calculus algorithm 
the index calculus algorithm is a probabilistic algorithm for computing discrete logarithms
define a thread
a thread is a program line under execution thread sometimes called a lightweight process is a basic unit of cpu utilization it comprises a thread id a program counter a register set and a stack
define boruvkas algorithm 
boruvkas algorithm is a greedy algorithm for finding a minimum spanning tree in a graph for which all edge weights are distinct or a minimum spanning forest in the case of a graph that is not connected
What is the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm?							
The complexity is O(n2). The time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to (n2)	 where n is the number of input items.						
define data structure
a data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored but also their relationship to each other advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data
how do you explain the logical address space
logical address specifies the address which is generated by the cpu whereas physical address specifies to the address which is seen by the memory unit
define gospers algorithm
find sums of hypergeometric terms that are themselves hypergeometric terms
What is Knuth Morris pratt algorithm
substring search which bypasses reexamination of matched characters
how do you explain modular method
in this method modulus operation is applied on each key this involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division the remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value
how do you explain a queue 
a queue is a sequential organization of data a queue is a first in first out type of data structure an element is inserted at the last position and an element is always taken out from the first position
define bitonic sorter 
bitonic mergesort is a parallel algorithm for sorting it is also used as a construction method for building a sorting network
what do you mean by primality tests
determining whether a given number is prime
Mention The Advantages Of Representing Stacks Using Linked Lists Than Arrays?								
It is not necessary to specify the number of elements to be stored in a stack during its declaration since memory is allocated dynamically at run time when an element is added to the stack. Insertions and deletions can be handled easily and efficiently.	Linked list representation of stacks can grow and shrink in size without wasting memory space	 depending upon the insertion and deletion that occurs in the list.	Multiple stacks can be represented efficiently using a chain for each stack.					 
What is Euclids algorithm.
Euclid's algorithm to compute the greatest common divisor (GCD)
define time slice
the timer in cpu is set to interrupt every n milliseconds where this n is called the time sliceit is the time each user gets to execute before control is given to next userat the end of each time slice the value of n is incremented and the record is maintainedit also maintains the record of the total time user program has executed thus far this method helps in time sharing among the various users
define floyd warshall algorithm 
solves the all pairs shortest path problem in a weighted directed graph
how do you explain modular method
in this method modulus operation is applied on each key this involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division the remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value
what do you mean by the worst case performance of binary search
the worst case performance of binary search is olog n
how do you explain phonetic algorithm 
a phonetic algorithm is an algorithm for indexing of words by their pronunciation
how do you explain closest pair problem
find the pair of points from a set of points with the smallest distance between them
What are the pros and cons of using circuit switching?
The primary advantage of using circuit switching is that it ensures the availability of resources. That is it reserves the network resources required for a specific transfer prior to the transmission taking place. By doing so it ensures that no packet would be dropped and the required quality of service is met. The disadvantage of using circuit switching is that it requires a round trip message to setup a reservation. By doing so as it provisions the resources ahead of the transmission it might lead to the suboptimal use of resources.Circuit switching can be implemented for applications that have constant demand for network resources for long periods of time.
What Is Rr Scheduling Algorithm?
RR (round-robin) scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for time-sharing systems. A circular queue is setup in such a way that the CPU scheduler goes around that queue, allocating CPU to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds.
what do you mean by jump and walk algorithm
an algorithm for point location in triangulations
Give an example of Turtle problem in bubble sort.							
Though	 array {2	3	4	5	 1} is almost sorted	 it takes O(n2) iterations to sort an array. Element {1} is a turtle. 	
What is jump and walk algorithm
an algorithm for point location in triangulations
how do you explain virtual memory
virtual memory is hardware technique where the system appears to have more memory that it actually does this is done by timesharing the physical memory and storage parts of the memory one disk when they are not actively being used
Give An Example Of A Process State.
New State  means a process is being created,Running  means instructions are being executed,Waiting  means a process is waiting for certain conditions or events to occur,Ready  means a process is waiting for an instruction from the main processor,Terminate  means a process is done executing
what do you mean by the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 queens problem
backtracking 
What are the various IPC mechanisms?
IPC - Inter Process Communication. Various IPC mechanisms are Sockets,Pipes,Shared memory,Signals and Message Queues
what do you mean by an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
define sorting algorithm 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order
define average case performance of binary search
the average case performance of binary search is olog n
What is a virtual memory?
Virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory. This is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory.
What is uniform cost-search 
a tree search that finds the lowest-cost route where costs vary
What is hamming distance 
sum number of positions which are different
define fragmentation
fragmentation is memory wasted it can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixedsized allocation units or external if we are dealing with systems that have variablesized allocation units
what do you mean by comparison sort
a comparison sort is a type of sorting algorithm that only reads the list elements through a single abstract comparison operation often a less than or equal to operator or a threeway comparison that determines which of two elements should occur first in the final sorted list 
what do you mean by bead sort 
the bead sort operation can be compared to the manner in which beads slide on parallel poles such as on an abacus
what do you mean by caching
caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process a cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed
What is string metrics 
compute a similarity or dissimilarity (distance) score between two pairs of text strings
What is laplacian smoothing
an algorithm to smooth a polygonal mesh
how do you explain user data
modifiable part of user space may include program data user stack area and programs that may be modified
What Are The Goals Of Data Structure?							
It must rich enough in structure to reflect the actual relationship of data in real world. The structure should be simple enough for efficient processing of data.							
What is closest pair problem
find the pair of points (from a set of points) with the smallest distance between them
what do you mean by comb sort 
the basic idea is to eliminate turtles or small values near the end of the list
List out some reasons for process termination.
Normal completion ,Time limit exceeded,Memory unavailableBounds violation,Protection error,Arithmetic error,Time overrun,I/O failure,Invalid instruction,Privileged instruction,Data misuse,Operator or OS intervention,Parent termination.
What would happen if bubble sort didn't keep track of the number of swaps made on each pass through the list?							
The algorithm wouldn't know when to terminate as it would have no way of knowing when the list was in sorted order.							
define the difference between a stack and an array
stack is a ordered collection of itemsstack is a dynamic object whose size is constantly changing as items are pushed and poppedstack may contain different data typesstack is declared as a structure containing an array to hold the element of the stack and an integer to indicate the current stack top within the array array is an ordered collection of itemsarray is a static object ie no of item is fixed and is assigned by the declaration of the arrayit contains same data typesarray can be home of a stack ie array can be declared large enough for maximum size of the stack
how do you explain sequence algorithms 
a sequence algorithm is an algorithm 12 that takes one or more linear sequences as inputs
What is a command interpreter?
It is a program that interprets the command input through keyboard or command batch file. It helps the user to interact with the OS and trigger the required system programs or execute some user application. Command interpreter is also referred to as Control card interpreter,Command line interpreter,Console command processor and Shell.
define nearest neighbour algorithm 
the nearest neighbour algorithm was one of the first algorithms used to determine a solution to the travelling salesman problem
How is a node searched in binary search tree? Give algorithm for it.							
The search operation in binary search tree refers to the process of searching for a specific value in the tree. To perform searching a node in binary search tree following algorithm is used:		Make currentNode point to the root node		If currentNode is null:	Display "Not found"	Exit							Compare the value to be searched with the value of currentNode. Depending on the result of the comparison	there can be three possibilities:	If the value is equal to the value of currentNode:	Display "Found"	Exit	If the value is less than the value of currentNode:	Make currentNode point to its left child Go to step 2		If the value is greater than the value of currentNode:	Make currentNode point to its right child		Go to step 2							
define uniform binary search
an optimization of the classic binary search algorithm
what do you mean by demand paging
demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the ram then the os brings the missingand required pages from the disk into the ram
how do you explain logical and physical addresses space
logical address space is generated from cpu it bound to a separate physical address space is central to proper memory management physical address space is seen by the memory unit logical address space is virtual address space both these address space will be same at compile time but differ at execution time
how do you explain difference between straight forward recursion and dynamic recursion 
the difference between dynamic programming and straightforward recursion is in caching or memoization of recursive calls 
What is the worst case performance of binary search?							
The worst case performance of binary search is O(log n).							
define lagrange interpolation 
interpolation using lagrange polynomials
what do you mean by precision
precision refers the accuracy of the decimal portion of a value precision is the number of digits allowed after the decimal point
What are device drivers?
Device drivers provide a standard means of representing I/O devices that maybe manufactured by different companies. This prevents conflicts whenever such devices are incorporated in a systems unit.
how do you explain multitasking
multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time however only one application is active at a time for user interaction although some applications can run behind the scene
define traveling salesman problem 
given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities what is the shortest possible route that visits each city and returns to the origin city
What is library sort 
Library sort, or gapped insertion sort is a sorting algorithm that uses an insertion sort, but with gaps in the array to accelerate subsequent insertions
What is page cannibalizing?
Page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing.
What is las vegas algorithm
Las Vegas algorithm is a randomized algorithm that always gives correct results; that is, it always produces the correct result or it informs about the failure.
What is substring search
string-searching algorithms, sometimes called string-matching algorithms, are an important class of string algorithms that try to find a place where one or several strings (also called patterns) are found within a larger string or text.
Mention One Advantage And Disadvantage Of Using Quadratic Probing?							
Advantage The problem of primary clustering is eliminated.Disadvantage There is no guarantee of finding an unoccupied cell once the table is nearly half full.					
What is the worst case performance of binary search?							
The worst case performance of binary search is O(log n).							
define brute force 
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
Write The Advantage Of Separate Chaining?								
More number of elements can be inserted as it uses linked lists.							
List Out The Areas In Which Data Structures Are Applied Extensively?							
Compiler Design	,Operating System,Database Management, SystemStatistical analysis package,Numerical Analysis,Graphics,Artificial Intelligence,Simulation.				
It is a technique in which the operating system periodically collects all the deleted space onto the free storage list.It takes place when there is minimum amount of space left in storage list or when CPU is ideal.							
The alternate method to this is to immediately reinsert the space into free storage list which is time consuming.							
what do you mean by level of a node
level of a node the distance of a node from the root is called the level of a node the root always lies at level 0 as move down the tree the level of a node increases in such a way that if a node is at level n then its children are at level n1 in preceding figure level of node 1 is 0 level of nodes 7 and 3 are 1 and so on
how do you explain data structure
a data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored but also their relationship to each other advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data 
how do you explain pollards p1 algorithm 
it is a specialpurpose algorithm meaning that it is only suitable for integers with specific types of factors it is the simplest example of an algebraicgroup factorisation algorithm
What is cache-coherency?
In a multiprocessor system there exist several caches each may containing a copy of same variable A. Then a change in one cache should immediately be reflected in all other caches this process of maintaining the same value of a data in all the caches s called cache-coherency.
define the zombie process
a zombie process is a process which has completed and in the terminated state but has its entry in the process table it shows that the resources are held by the process and are not free
how do you explain dead lock
deadlock is a situation or condition where the two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start this result both the processes to hang
what do you mean by average case performance of binary search
the average case performance of binary search is olog n
how do you explain fibonacci search technique 
search a sorted sequence using a divide and conquer algorithm that narrows down possible locations with the aid of fibonacci numbers
What Are Interrupts?
Interrupts are part of a hardware mechanism that sends a notification to the CPU when it wants to gain access to a particular resource. An interrupt handler receives this interrupt signal and tells the processor to take action based on the interrupt request.
What is the Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB)?
In a cached system, the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the TLB that aids in faster lookup. TLB contains those page-table entries that have been most recently used. Normally, each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses- one to fetch appropriate page-table entry, and one to fetch the desired data. Using TLB 
define worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm
worst case  on2 and average case  on2
What phonetic algorithm 
A phonetic algorithm is an algorithm for indexing of words by their pronunciation.
What Actions Are Performed When A Function Returns?							
Return address is retrieved.Functions data area is freed.Branch is taken to the return address.							
define linear time 
linear time if the time is proportional to the input size eg the traverse of a list
how do you explain a binary semaphore what is its use
a binary semaphore is one which takes only 0 and 1 as values they are used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes
what do you mean by worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm
o1 auxiliary
define virtual memory
virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory this is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory
how do you explain worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm
worst case  on2 and average case  on2
define a undirected graph
a graph in which every edge is undirected is called a directed graph
What is jaro-winkler distance 
It is a measure of similarity between two strings
What is spaghetti sort 
This algorithm sorts a sequence of items requiring O(n) stack space in a stable manner. It requires a parallel processor.
how do you explain krauss matching wildcards algorithm
an opensource nonrecursive algorithm
define microkernel
it is kernel with a limited service that is with some important services runningexample qnxrealtime os
What has triggered the need for multitasking in PCs?
Increased speed and memory capacity of microprocessors together with the support fir virtual memory and Growth of client server computing
how do you explain timestamping
it is a technique proposed by lamport used to order events in a distributed system without the use of clocks this scheme is intended to order events consisting of the transmission of messages each system i in the network maintains a counter ci every time a system transmits a message it increments its counter by 1 and attaches the timestamp ti to the message when a message is received the receiving system j sets its counter cj to 1 more than the maximum of its current value and the incoming timestamp ti at each site the ordering of messages is determined by the following rules for messages x from site i and y from site j x precedes y if one of the following conditions holdsa if titj or b if titj and ij
What Is A Simple Path?			
A path in a diagram inwhich the edges are distinct is called a simple path. It is also called as edge simple.										
define a socket
a socket provides a connection between two applications each endpoint of a communication is a socket
What is multiplicative inverse algorithms 
an approximation of the square-root of the sum of two squares
Explain PCB.
PCB, process control block, is also called as the task control block.It contains information about the process state like new, ready, running, waiting and halt.It also includes the information regarding the process priority and pointers to scheduling queues .Its counter indicates the address of the next instruction to be executed for the process.It basically serves as the storage for any information that may vary from process to process.
define user program
the instructions to be executed
how do you explain point in polygon algorithms 
find the nearest point or points to a query point
how do you explain a compiler
a compiler is a program that takes a source code as an input and converts it into an object code during the compilation process the source code goes through lexical analysis parsing and intermediate code generation which is then optimized to give final output as an object code
How Is The Front Of The Queue Calculated ?							
The front of the queue is calculated by front = (front+1) % size.							
what do you mean by selection sorts
convert the list into a heap keep removing the largest element from the heap and adding it to the end of the list
how do you explain toomcook algorithm
it is a multiplication algorithm for large integers
What is merge sort 
sort the first and second half of the list separately, then merge the sorted lists
what do you mean by  karatsuba algorithm 
the karatsuba algorithm is a fast multiplication algorithm
How is approximation reached 
The approximation can be reached by either using a deterministic or a random strategy. Such algorithms have practical value for many hard problems. 
what do you mean by bkm algorithm 
for computing a numbers multiplicative inverse reciprocal
what do you mean by the purpose of batch operating system
all jobs are submitted at once and are executed in a particular order with any preemption which means that no jobs can be taken unless these complete
what do you mean by an assembler
an assembler acts as a translator for lowlevel language assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the assembler into machine language
what do you mean by an algorithm
an algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems
What is birkhoff interpolation 
an extension of polynomial interpolation
Give examples of approximate algorithms
One of the examples of an approximate algorithm is the Knapsack problem.
how do you explain timsort
adaptative algorithm derived from merge sort and insertion sort used in python 23 and up and java se 7
What is heaps permutation generation algorithm 
interchange elements to generate next permutation
What is point set registration algorithms
finds the transformation between two point sets to optimally align them.
what do you mean by back tracking approach
in this approach multiple solutions are built incrementally and abandoned when it is determined that they cannot lead to a valid full solution
What is Euler method 
Euler's method is a numerical method to solve first order first degree differential equation with a given initial value. It is the most basic explicit method for numerical integration of ordinary differential equations and is the simplest RungeKutta method. 
define chudnovsky algorithm 
a fast method for calculating the digits of p
how do you explain schreiersims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set bsgs of a permutation group
define cachecoherency
in a multiprocessor system there exist several caches each may containing a copy of same variable a then a change in one cache should immediately be reflected in all other caches this process of maintaining the same value of a data in all the caches s called cachecoherency
Define Ancestor And Descendant ?			
An expression tree is a tree which is build from infix or prefix or postfix expression. Generally	 in such a tree	 the leaves are operands and other nodes are operators.		
define euclidean shortest path problem 
find the shortest path between two points that does not intersect any obstacle
what do you mean by bronkerbosch algorithm 
the bronkerbosch algorithm is an algorithm for finding maximal cliques in an undirected graph
How do you define tree in a data structure?							
A tree is a nonlinear data structure that represents a hierarchical relationship among the various data elements	 as shown in the following figure.	Each data elements in a tree is called a node. The topmost node of the tree is called a root							
what do you mean by busy waiting
the repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busywaiting the cpu is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period and the process does not progress toward completion
how do you explain uniform binary search
an optimization of the classic binary search algorithm
List Out The Applications Of A Linked List?
Some of the important applications of linked lists are manipulation of polynomials	 sparse matrices	 stacks and queues.						
define marshalling
the process of packaging and sending interface method parameters across thread or process boundaries
what do you mean by the worst case space complexity of selection sort
the worst case space complexity of selection sort is on total o1 auxiliary
what do you mean by tree search 
tree traversal also known as tree search is a form of graph traversal and refers to the process of visiting checking andor updating each node in a tree data structure exactly once
what do you mean by sorted lists 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order
what do you mean by schensted algorithm 
constructs a pair of young tableaux from a permutation
Name the different types of memory?
Main memory also called primary memory or RAM,Secondary memory or backing storage, Cache and  Internal process memory
what do you mean by short term scheduler 
short term scheduler also know as a dispatcher executes most frequently and makes the finestgrained decision of which process should execute next this scheduler is invoked whenever an event occurs it may lead to interruption of one process by preemption
what do you mean by time slice
the timer in cpu is set to interrupt every n milliseconds where this n is called the time sliceit is the time each user gets to execute before control is given to next userat the end of each time slice the value of n is incremented and the record is maintainedit also maintains the record of the total time user program has executed thus far this method helps in time sharing among the various users
Define Parent Node?							
The node which is having further sub-branches is called the parent node of those sub-branches.Here C is the parent node of D and E.							
define preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling
preemptive scheduling the preemptive scheduling is prioritized the highest priority process should always be the process that is currently utilizednonpreemptive scheduling when a process enters the state of running the state of that process is not deleted from the scheduler until it finishes its service time
how do you explain counting sort 
counting sort is an algorithm for sorting a collection of objects according to keys that are small integers that is it is an integer sorting algorithm
What is GUI?
GUI is short for Graphical User Interface. It provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols. People find it easier to interact with the computer when in a GUI especially when using the mouse. Instead of having to remember and type commands, users click on buttons to perform a process.
what do you mean by gausslegendre algorithm 
computes the digits of pi
what do you mean by b
in computer science b pronounced b star is a bestfirst graph search algorithm that finds the leastcost path from a given initial node to any goal node out of one or more possible goals
define kernel 
kernel is the core and essential part of computer operating system that provides basic services for all parts of os
What is schonhage-strassen algorithm 
The SchnhageStrassen algorithm is an asymptotically fast multiplication algorithm for large integers. 
how do you explain decrease and conquer algorithms
a simpler variant of divide and conquer is called a decrease and conquer algorithm that solves an identical subproblem and uses the solution of this subproblem to solve the bigger problem 
define system stack
each process has one or more lifo stacks associated with it used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system calls
what do you mean by online algorithm 
an online algorithm is one that can process its input piecebypiece in a serial fashion ie in the order that the input is fed to the algorithm without having the entire input available from the beginning
What is a Kernel?
Kernel is the part of OS which handles all details of sharing resources and device handling.It can be considered as the core of OS which manages the core features of an OS.Its purpose is to handle the communication between software and hardware.Its services are used through system calls and A layer of software called shell wraps around the Kernel.
define incremental heuristic search algorithm 
incremental heuristic search algorithms combine both incremental and heuristic search to speed up searches of sequences of similar search problems which is important in domains that are only incompletely known or change dynamically
define gui
gui is short for graphical user interface it provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols people find it easier to interact with the computer when in a gui especially when using the mouse instead of having to remember and type commands users just click on buttons to perform a process
define cone algorithm 
identify surface points
Classify algorithm
An algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems.
what do you mean by exponentiating by squaring 
a way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
What Are The Objectives Of Studying Data Structures?							
To identify and create useful mathematical entities and operations to determine what classes of problems can be solved using these entities and operations.To determine the representation of these abstract entities and to implement the abstract operations on these concrete representation.							
define plumbingpiping
it is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another for example instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen it can be piped and sent to a file or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy
what do you mean by process migration
it is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine
what do you mean by zhu takaoka string matching algorithms 
searches multiple patterns efficiently
what do you mean by a data register
data registers  can be assigned to a variety of functions by the programmer they can be used with any machine instruction that performs operations on data
define strongly connected components
in the mathematical theory of directed graphs a graph is said to be strongly connected or diconnected if every vertex is reachable from every other vertex
What is a spanning Tree? 							
A spanning tree is a tree associated with a network. All the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once. A minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized. 							
What Is A Trap And Trapdoor?
Trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication. A trap is a software interrupt, usually the result of an error condition.
define nos
nos is short for network operating system it is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network including filefolder sharing
define substring search
stringsearching algorithms sometimes called stringmatching algorithms are an important class of string algorithms that try to find a place where one or several strings also called patterns are found within a larger string or text
What do you mean by Binary Search Tree?							
A binary search tree is a binary tree in which the value of the left child of a node is always less than the value of the node	 and the value of the right child of a node is always greater than the value of the node.						
define plumbing  piping
it is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another for example instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen it can be piped and sent to a file or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy
how do you explain semaphore
semaphore is a variable whose status reports common resource semaphore is of two types one is binary semaphore and other is counting semaphore
how do you explain cascading termination
if one process is terminated its related processes are also terminated abnormally then it is called cascade terminationit occurs in the case of parent child processif the parent process is terminated normally or abnormally then all its child processes must be terminatedthe parent is existing and the operating system does not allow a child to continue if its parent terminatesthis child process is the new process created by the process called the parent process
define preemptive multitasking
preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs this in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes
Do bubble sort and selection sort have quadratic order of growth?							
Yes	 bubble sort and selection sort have quadratic order of growth.						
define shoe lace algorithm 
determine the area of a polygon whose vertices are described by ordered pairs in the plane
how do you explain absolute path
relative path is relative to the current path
define cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
how do you explain an edge
edge a link from the parent to the child node is referred to as edge it is also known as a branch a tree with n nodes has n1 edges
define longest increasing subsequence problem
find the longest increasing subsequence of a given sequence
What Are The Advantages Of Modularity?							
It is much easier to debug small routines than large routines.It is easier for several people to work on a modular program simultaneouslyA well-written modular program places certain dependencies in only one routine	 making changes easier						
define knuthbendix completion algorithm
for rewriting rule system 
what do you mean by backward euler method 
in numerical analysis and scientific computing the backward euler method or implicit euler method is one of the most basic numerical methods for the solution of ordinary differential equations
what do you mean by beladys anomaly
beladys anomaly is also called fifo anomaly usually on increasing the number of frames allocated to a process virtual memory the process execution is faster because fewer page faults occur sometimes the reverse happens ie the execution time increases even when more frames are allocated to the process this is beladys anomaly this is true for certain page reference patterns
What Is Data Structure?							
A data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored	 but also their relationship to each other. Advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data.						
define busy waiting
the repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busywaiting the cpu is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period and the process does not progress toward completion
What is virtual memory?
Virtual memory is a very useful memory management technique which enables processes to execute outside of memory. This technique is especially used when an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory. 
how do you explain linear search 
finds an item in an unsorted sequence
how do you explain fischeryates shuffle
randomly shuffle a finite set
what do you mean by a
a pronounced a star is a computer algorithm that is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal which is the process of finding a path between multiple points called nodes 
What is shifting nth-root algorithm 
digit by digit root extraction
what do you mean by recursive algorithm
a recursive algorithm is one that invokes or makes reference to itself repeatedly until a certain condition 
define nearest neighbour search
the arbitrarily oriented minimum bounding box is the minimum bounding box calculated subject to no constraints as to the orientation of the result
What Is The Basic Function Of Paging?
Paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physical-address space of a process to be noncontiguous. It avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store.
A deadlock situation can arise if the following four conditions hold simultaneously in a system.
Mutual Exclusion.Hold and Wait.No Preemption. Circular-wait.It is not possible to have circular wait with only one process, thus failing a necessary condition for Circular wait. There is no second process to form a circle with the first one. So it is not possible to have a deadlock involving only one process.
What are the advantages of multiprocessor system?
Systems which have more than one processor are called multiprocessor system. These systems are also known as parallel systems or tightly coupled systems. 
how do you explain a linked list
a linked list is a linear collection of data elements called nodes where the linear order is given by pointers each node has two parts first part contain the information of the element second part contains the address of the next node in the list
what do you mean by a spanning tree
a spanning tree is a tree associated with a network all the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized
define root partition
root partition is where the operating system kernel is located it also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time
How can you classify algorithms by complexity
Algorithms can be classified by the amount of time they need to complete compared to their input size:
what do you mean by boyer moore string search algorithm 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
define tonellishanks algorithm 
the tonellishanks algorithm referred to by shanks as the ressol algorithm is used in modular arithmetic to solve for r in a congruence of the form r2  n mod p where p is a prime that is to find a square root of n modulo p
define pigeonhole sort 
pigeonhole sorting is a sorting algorithm that is suitable for sorting lists of elements where the number of elements n and the length of the range of possible key values n are approximately the same
What are the types semaphore?
There are two types of semaphore. They are Binary semaphores,Counting semaphores
What Is A Minimum Spanning Tree?													
A minimum spanning tree of an undirected graph G is a tree formed from graph edges that connects all the vertices of G at the lowest total cost.						
what do you mean by context switching
transferring the control from one process to other process requires saving the state of the old process and loading the saved state for new process this task is known as context switching
how do you explain steinhausjohnsontrotter algorithm 
generate permutations by transposing elements
Explain how to access Terminal?
To access terminal, you have to go under Application Menu -> Accessories -> Terminal.
what do you mean by phonetic algorithm 
a phonetic algorithm is an algorithm for indexing of words by their pronunciation
what do you mean by a folder in ubuntu
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything included in your hardware is a file
define load sharing
processes are not assigned to a particular processor a global queue of threads is maintained each processor when idle selects a thread from this queue note that load balancing refers to a scheme where work is allocated to processors on a more permanent basis
how do you explain set division
compute elementary functions using a table of logarithms
What is Modular Method?							
In this method	 modulus operation is applied on each key. This involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division. The remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value.						
what do you mean by the use of paging in operating system
paging is used to solve the external fragmentation problem in operating system this technique ensures that the data you need is available as quickly as possible 
A min heap is used to sort the list in which order?							
A min heap is used to sort the list in descending order.							
What is Memory-Management Unit (MMU)?
Hardware device that maps virtual to physical address. In MMU scheme, the value in the relocation register is added to every address generated by a user process at the time it is sent to memory.The user program deals with logical addresses; it never sees the real physical addresses
how do you explain the difference between process and program
a program while running or executing is known as a process 
what do you mean by cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
What do you mean by a zombie process?
These are dead processes which are not yet removed from the process table. It happens when the parent process has terminated while the child process is still running. This child process now stays as a zombie.
What are the process and process table
A process can be called as a program which is in execution. A web browser, a shell script running all can be considered as a process. The job of an operating system is to manage all these processes. It also allocates the processes a certain amount of time to all processes. Along with this, the operating system will also allocate various resources that will process computer memory and disks. To be in sync with all these processes the operating system maintains a process table. The table has information about every process which is listed with the resources, the processes that are being used and the current state of the process.
how do you explain a command interpreter
it is a program that interprets the command input through keyboard or command batch file it helps the user to interact with the os and trigger the required system programs or execute some user application command interpreter is also referred to as control card interpretercommand line interpreterconsole command processor and shell
What is Dijkstras algorithm
Dijkstra's algorithm is an algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph, which may represent
What is spanning tree 
In the mathematical field of graph theory, a spanning tree T of an undirected graph G is a subgraph that is a tree which includes all of the vertices of G, with minimum possible number of edges
Which is the fundamental principle of hashing?							
The fundamental principle of hashing is to convert a given key value to an offset address to retrieve a record.							
what do you mean by chews second algorithm 
create quality constrained delaunay triangulations
define the logical address space
logical address specifies the address which is generated by the cpu whereas physical address specifies to the address which is seen by the memory unit
define the data structures used to perform recursion
stack because of its lifo last in first out property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls
What Do You Mean By Overflow And Underflow?							
When new data is to be inserted into the data structure but there is no available space i.e. free storage list is empty this situation is called overflow.When we want to delete data from a data structure that is empty this situation is called underflow.							
define context switching
transferring the control from one process to other process requires saving the state of the old process and loading the saved state for new process this task is known as context switching
What is multiplication algorithms
fast multiplication of two numbers
how do you explain a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
Define Indegree Of A Graph?						
In a directed graph	 for any node v the number of edges which have v as their terminal node is called the indegree of the node v.					
How do you solve the problem of chess 
Using graphs
how do you explain a spanning tree
a spanning tree is a tree associated with a network all the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized
what do you mean by a sibling
siblingsbrothers children of the same node are called siblings of each other in the preceding figurenodes 7 and 3 are siblings of each othernodes 2 and 6 are siblings of each other
how do you explain degree of a node
degree of a node the number of subtrees of a node is called the degree of a node
What is breadth-first search 
Breadth-first search (BFS) is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures.
What Is The Purpose Of An I/o Status Information?
I/O status information provides info about which I/O devices are to be allocated for a particular process. It also shows which files are opened, and other I/O device state.
how do you explain a minimum spanning tree
a minimum spanning tree of an undirected graph g is a tree formed from graph edges that connects all the vertices of g at the lowest total cost
define push relabel algorithm 
computes a maximum flow in a graph
how do you explain alpha max plus beta min algorithm 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
What complications does concurrent processing add to an operating system?
A time sharing method must be implemented to allow multiple processes to have an access to the system. This will involve the preemption of processes that do not give up CPU on their own i.e. more than one process may be executing kernel code simultaneously.The amount of resources that a process can use and the operations that it may perform must be limited. The system resources and the processes must be protected from each other.Kernel must be designed to prevent deadlocks between the various processes, i.e. Cyclic waiting or hold and waiting must not occur.Effective memory management techniques must be used to better utilize the limited resources.
define kernel 
kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system which provides basic services for all parts of the os
what do you mean by pollards kangaroo algorithm 
an algorithm for solving the discrete logarithm problem
What are the most challenging aspects of algorithm design 
important aspects of algorithm design is creating an algorithm that has an efficient run-time
How do you test Euclids algorithms 
proof of program correctness by use of mathematical induction
What is euclidean shortest path problem 
find the shortest path between two points that does not intersect any obstacle
How are the wait/signal operations for monitor different from those for semaphores?
If a process in a monitor signal and no task is waiting on the condition variable, the signal is lost. So this allows easier program design. Whereas in semaphores, every operation affects the value of the semaphore, so the wait and signal operations should be perfectly balanced in the program.
how do you explain johnsons algorithm 
all pairs shortest path algorithm in sparse weighted directed graph
define predictive search 
binarylike search which factors in magnitude of search term versus the high and low values in the search sometimes called dictionary search or interpolated search
what do you mean by page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
define average case performance of binary search
the average case performance of binary search is olog n
what do you mean by smooth sort 
like heapsort smoothsort is an inplace algorithm with an upper bound of on log n2 but it is not a stable
how do you explain process migration
it is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine
what do you mean by spooling
spooling is normally associated with printing when different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer
what do you mean by suffix trees
a suffix tree also called pat tree or in an earlier form position tree is a compressed trie containing all the suffixes of the given text as their keys and positions in the text as their values suffix trees allow particularly fast implementations of many important string operationsan opensource nonrecursive algorithm
What is shortest common super sequence problem 
Find the shortest supersequence that contains two or more sequences as subsequences
define starvation in operating system
starvation is resource management problem in this problem a waiting process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processes
define a spanning tree
a spanning tree is a tree associated with a network all the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized
What is worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm?							
Worst case = O(n2) and average case = O(n2).							
Why is round robin algorithm considered better than first come first served algorithm?
The first come first served algorithm is the simplest scheduling algorithm known. The processes are assigned to the CPU on the basis of their arrival time in the ready queue. Since, it is non-preemptive once a process is assigned to the CPU, it will run till completion. Since a process takes the CPU till it is executed it is not very good in providing good response times. It can make other important processes wait un-necessarily. 
how do you explain sequential search
in sequential search each item in the array is compared with the item being searched until a match occurs it is applicable to a table organized either as an array or as a linked list
how do you explain a data register
data registers  can be assigned to a variety of functions by the programmer they can be used with any machine instruction that performs operations on data
define euler method 
eulers method is a numerical method to solve first order first degree differential equation with a given initial value it is the most basic explicit method for numerical integration of ordinary differential equations and is the simplest rungekutta method 
what is jump point search
An optimization to A* which may reduce computation time by an order of magnitude using further heuristics.
define merge algorithm 
merge algorithms are a family of algorithms that take multiple sorted lists as input and produce a single list as output containing all the elements of the inputs lists in sorted order 
What is risch algorithm
an algorithm for the calculus operation of indefinite integration (i.e. finding antiderivatives)
what do you mean by introsoft 
begin with quicksort and switch to heapsort when the recursion depth exceeds a certain level
There Are 8	15	13	 14 Nodes Were There In 4 Different Trees. Which Of Them Could Have Formed A Full Binary Tree?				
In general There are 2n-1 nodes in a full binary tree. By the method of elimination													
define page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
how do you explain insertion sort 
determine where the current item belongs in the list of sorted ones and insert it there
how do you explain  dispatcher
dispatcher module gives control of the cpu to the process selected by the shortterm scheduler this involves switching context switching to user mode jumping to the proper location in the user program to restart that program dispatch latency  time it takes for the dispatcher to stop one process and start another running
What is matching wildcards 
an algorithm for matching wildcards (also known as a globbing) is useful in comparing text strings that may contain wildcard syntax.
define a data register
data registers  can be assigned to a variety of functions by the programmer they can be used with any machine instruction that performs operations on data
How Does Dynamic Loading Aid In Better Memory Space Utilization?
With dynamic loading, a routine is not loaded until it is called. This method is especially useful when large amounts of code are needed in order to handle infrequently occurring cases such as error routines.
what do you mean by degree of a node
degree of a node the number of subtrees of a node is called the degree of a node
What is general problem solver 
Any problem that can be expressed as a set of well-formed formulas (WFFs) or Horn clauses, and that constitute a directed graph with one or more sources (viz., axioms) and sinks (viz., desired conclusions), can be solved
define a weighted graph
a graph in which weights are assigned to every edge is called a weighted graph
What is Floyd-warshall algorithm
the shortest path to a goal from a vertex in a weighted graph can be found by using the shortest path to the goal from all adjacent vertices. 
how do you explain the purpose of an io status information
io status information provides info about which io devices are to be allocated for a particular process it also shows which files are opened and other io device state
What Is Fragmentation?
Fragmentation is memory wasted. It can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixed-sized allocation units, or external if we are dealing with systems that have variable-sized allocation units.
what do you mean by nos
nos is short for network operating system it is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network including filefolder sharing
What is the Zombie process?
A zombie process is a process which has completed and in the terminated state but has its entry in the process table. It shows that the resources are held by the process and are not free.
how do you explain christofides algorithm
the christofides algorithm is an algorithm for finding approximate solutions to the travelling salesman problem
define geometric hashing 
a method for efficiently finding twodimensional objects represented by discrete points that have undergone an affine transformation
define monte carlo algorithm
in computing a monte carlo algorithm is a randomized algorithm whose output may be incorrect with a certain typically small probability
Is Pointer A Variable?							
Yes it is a pointer is a variable and can be used as an element of a structure and as an attribute of a class in some programming languages such as C++	 but not Java. However	 the contents of a pointer is a memory address of another location of memory	 which is usually the memory address of another variable	 element of a structure	 or attribute of a class.	
how do you explain cocktail shaker sort 
a bubble sort traversing the list alternately from front to back and back to front 
define a priority queue
the priority queue is a data structure in which the intrinsic ordering of the elements numeric or alphabetic determines the result of its basic operation it is of two typesthey are ascending priority queue here smallest item can be removed insertion is arbitrarydescending priority queue here largest item can be removed insertion is arbitrary
What Do You Mean By 2-3-4 Tree?							
A B-tree of order 4 is called 2-3-4 tree. A B-tree of order 4 is a tree that is not binary with the following structural properties	The root is either a leaf or has between 2 and 4 children.All non-leaf nodes (except the root) have between 2 and 4 children.	All leaves are at the same depth.							
What is aging in Operating System?
Aging is a technique used to avoid the starvation in resource scheduling system.
what do you mean by kruscals algorithm
kruskals algorithm is a minimumspanningtree algorithm which finds an edge of the least possible weight that connects any two trees in the forest
how do you explain dedicated processor assignment
provides implicit scheduling defined by assignment of threads to processors for the duration of program execution each program is allocated a set of processors equal in number to the number of threads in the program processors are chosen from the available pool
how do you explain demand paging
demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the ram then the os brings the missingand required pages from the disk into the ram
What is busy waiting?
The repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busy-waiting. The CPU is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period, and the process does not progress toward completion.
What is SMP?
To achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used. In essence, with SMP any process or threads can be assigned to any processor.
how do you explain the use of behavior tab in ubuntu
through behaviors tab you can make many changes on the appearance of the desktopautohide the launcher you can use this option to reveal the launcher when moving the pointer to the defined hot spotenable workspaces  by checking this option you can enable workspaceadd show desktop icon to the launcher this option is used to display the desktop icon on the launcher
how do you explain b
in computer science b pronounced b star is a bestfirst graph search algorithm that finds the leastcost path from a given initial node to any goal node out of one or more possible goals
What is polynomial time
Polynomial time: if the time is a power of the input size. E.g. the bubble sort algorithm has quadratic time complexity.
Differentiate internal commands from external commands.
Internal commands are built-in commands that are already part of the operating system. External commands are separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory.
define wait time
this is the time that a process spends for its turn to get executed
define sample sort
samplesort is a sorting algorithm that is a divide and conquer algorithm often used in parallel processing systems
define sweep line algorithm 
plane sweep algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that uses a conceptual sweep line or sweep surface to solve various problems in euclidean space 
how do you explain the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
how do you explain discrete logarithm 
the discrete logarithm logb a is an integer k such that bk  a
what do you mean by user program
the instructions to be executed
how do you explain scsi
scsi  small computer systems interface is a type of interface used for computer components such as hard drives optical drives scanners and tape drives it is a competing technology to standard ide integrated drive electronics
what do you mean by the use of behavior tab in ubuntu
through behaviors tab you can make many changes on the appearance of the desktopautohide the launcher you can use this option to reveal the launcher when moving the pointer to the defined hot spotenable workspaces  by checking this option you can enable workspaceadd show desktop icon to the launcher this option is used to display the desktop icon on the launcher
define kernel
kernel is the core of every operating system it connects applications to the actual processing of data it also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability
What is preemptive multitasking?
Preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs. This, in turn, allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes.
What is flash sort 
Flashsort is a distribution sorting algorithm showing linear computational complexity for uniformly distributed data sets and relatively little additional memory requirement
define depth of a tree
depth of a tree the maximum number of levels in a tree is called the depth of a tree in other words depth of a tree is one more than maximum level of the tree the depth of a tree in above figure is 4
define meant by binary tree traversal
traversing a binary tree means moving through all the nodes in the binary tree visiting each node in the tree only once
define primss algorithm 
prims also known as jarnks algorithm is a greedy algorithm that finds a minimum spanning tree for a weighted undirected graph
how do you explain a long term scheduler  short term schedulers
long term schedulers are the job schedulers that select processes from the job queue and load them into memory for execution the short term schedulers are the cpu schedulers that select a process from the ready queue and allocate the cpu to one of them
how do you explain chews second algorithm 
create quality constrained delaunay triangulations
What is time slice?
The timer in CPU is set to interrupt every N milliseconds where this N is called the time slice.It is the time each user gets to execute before control is given to next user.At the end of each time slice the value of N is incremented and the record is maintained.It also maintains the record of the total time user program has executed thus far. This method helps in time sharing among the various users.
What Are Some Pros And Cons Of A Command Line Interface?
A command line interface allows the user to type in commands that can immediately provide results. Many seasoned computer users are well accustomed to using the command line because they find it quicker and simpler. The main problem with a command line interface is that users have to be familiar with the commands, including the switches and parameters that come with it. This is a downside for people who are not fond of memorizing commands.
How do you define binary search?							
A binary search or half-interval search finds the position of a specified value (the input "key") within a sorted array. Binary search is applied only on the list which is sorted and if the list to be searched is not sorted	 it needs to be sorted before binary search can be applied to it.							
What is root partition?
Root partition is where the operating system kernel is located. It also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time.
define the resident set and working set of a process
resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in realmemory at a particular instant working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution relate this to the variablewindow size method for swapping techniques
what do you mean by shortest path problem 
in graph theory the shortest path problem is the problem of finding a path between two vertices or nodes in a graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized
how do you explain risch algorithm
an algorithm for the calculus operation of indefinite integration ie finding antiderivatives
Define compactions.
Compaction is a process in which the free space is collected in a large memory chunk to make some space available for processes.
How do you define binary search?							
A binary search or half-interval search finds the position of a specified value (the input "key") within a sorted array. Binary search is applied only on the list which is sorted and if the list to be searched is not sorted	 it needs to be sorted before binary search can be applied to it.						
how do you explain quick hull
quickhull is a method of computing the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane
What is the logical address space?
Logical address specifies the address which is generated by the CPU whereas physical address specifies to the address which is seen by the memory unit.
what do you mean by the main purpose of an operating system
there are two main purposes of an operating systemit is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activitiesit provides an environment for the development and execution of programs 
how do you explain multiplicative inverse algorithms 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
example of divide and conquer algorithms 
One such example of divide and conquer is merge sorting. 
What is ukkonens algorithms
a linear-time, online algorithm for constructing suffix trees
What is polynomial long division
an algorithm for dividing a polynomial by another polynomial of the same or lower degree 
What Is The Need For Path Compression?					
Path compression is performed during a Find operation. Suppose if we want to perform Find(X)	 then the effect of path compression is that every node on the path from X to the root has its parent changed to the root.				
What Is Gui?
GUI is short for Graphical User Interface. It provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols. People find it easier to interact with the computer when in a GUI especially when using the mouse. Instead of having to remember and type commands, users just click on buttons to perform a process.
define cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
how do you explain difference between divide and conquer algorithm and dynamic programming 
the main difference between dynamic programming and divide and conquer is that subproblems are more or less independent in divide and conquer whereas subproblems overlap in dynamic programming 
define tree sort 
build binary tree then traverse it to create sorted list
What are demand-paging and pre-paging?
With demand paging, a page is brought into memory only when a location on that page is actually referenced during execution. With pre-paging, pages other than the one demanded by a page fault are brought in. The selection of such pages is done based on common access patterns.
Differentiate Internal Commands From External Commands.
Internal commands are built-in commands that are already part of the operating system. External commands are separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory.
how do you explain  karatsuba algorithm 
the karatsuba algorithm is a fast multiplication algorithm
What is topological sort
finds linear order of nodes (e.g. jobs) based on their dependencies.
what do you mean by logarithmic time 
logarithmic time if the time is a logarithmic function of the input size eg binary search algorithm
What is the best case performance of selection sort?							
The best case performance of selection sort is O(n2).							
how do you explain sss
state space search traversing a game tree in a bestfirst fashion similar to that of the a search algorithm
What Do You Mean By Heap Order Property?												
In a heap for every node X	 the key in the parent of X is smaller than (or equal to) the key in X	 with the exception of the root (which has no parent).				
what do you mean by binary search algorithm 
locates an item in a sorted sequence
Is there is relation ship between randomness and faster approximations
it is known that the fastest approximations must involve some randomness.
Give some benefits of multithreaded programming.
There is increased responsiveness to the user,resource sharing within the process,economy,utilization of multiprocessing architecture,
what do you mean by algorithm design 
algorithm design refers to a method or mathematical process for problemsolving and engineering algorithm
how do you explain a sibling
siblingsbrothers children of the same node are called siblings of each other in the preceding figurenodes 7 and 3 are siblings of each othernodes 2 and 6 are siblings of each other
What is recursive algorithm
A recursive algorithm is one that invokes or makes reference to itself repeatedly until a certain condition 
define selection algorithm
a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array such a number is called the kth order statistic
Give an example of a Process State.
New State  means a process is being created,Running  means instructions are being executed,Waiting  means a process is waiting for certain conditions or events to occur,Ready  means a process is waiting for an instruction from the main processor,Terminate  means a process is stopped abruptly
What is a socket?
A socket provides a connection between two applications. Each endpoint of a communication is a socket.
what do you mean by randomised algorithm 
a randomized algorithm is an algorithm that employs a degree of randomness as part of its logic
What is process spawning?
When the OS at the explicit request of another process creates a process, this action is called process spawning
What is ford-fulkerson algorithm 
computes the maximum flow in a graph
What Method Removes The Value From The Top Of A Stack?					
The pop() member method removes the value from the top of a stack	 which is then returned by the pop() member method to the statement that calls the pop() member method.		
State some implementations of algorithms
Recursion, logical, serial, parallel, distributed, deterministic, exact , approximate quantum algorithms
define the purpose of realtime operating system
here a specified time is allotted for each job and it is usually a critical application pertaining to military operations satellites
define root partition
root partition is where the operating system kernel is located it also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time
What Does Each Entry In The Link List Called?
Each entry in a linked list is called a node. Think of a node as an entry that has three sub entries. One sub entry contains the data	 which may be one attribute or many attributes.Another points to the previous node	 and the last points to the next node. When you enter a new item on a linked list	 you allocate the new node and then set the pointers to previous and next nodes. 			
what do you mean by quick hull
quickhull is a method of computing the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane
what do you mean by cliques 
a clique klik or klk is a subset of vertices of an undirected graph such that every two distinct vertices in the clique are adjacent that is its induced subgraph is complete
define knapsack problem
the knapsack problem is a problem where there is a set of given items the goal of the problem is to pack the knapsack to get the maximum total value each item has some weight and some value total weight that we can carry is no more than some fixed number x so we must consider weights of items as well as their value
What Is The Resident Set And Working Set Of A Process?
Resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in real-memory at a particular instant. Working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution. (Relate this to the variable-window size method for swapping techniques.)
how do you explain ahocorasick substring problem 
based algorithm for finding all substring matches to any of a finite set of strings
what do you mean by the worst case performance of binary search
the worst case performance of binary search is olog n
define point in polygon algorithms 
find the nearest point or points to a query point
what do you mean by set division
compute elementary functions using a table of logarithms
define christofides algorithm
the christofides algorithm is an algorithm for finding approximate solutions to the travelling salesman problem
what do you mean by spooling
spooling is a process in which data is temporarily gathered to be used and executed by a device program or the system it is associated with printing when different applications send output to the printer at the same time spooling keeps these all jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer 
Selection sort is suitable for which type of list.							
Selection sort is suitable for small list.							
What is A*
A* (pronounced "A star") is a computer algorithm that is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal, which is the process of finding a path between multiple points, called "nodes". 
What is Direct Access Method?
Direct Access method is based on a disk model of a file, such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records. It allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written. Direct access is advantageous when accessing large amounts of information.
how do you explain monolithic kernel
it can be considered as a whole kernel that is a fullfledged kernel which provides all the services are runningexample unix
what do you mean by a realtime system
a real time process is a process that must respond to the events within a certain time period a real time operating system is an operating system that can run real time processes successfully
What is Knuth-bendix completion algorithm
for rewriting rule system. 
define the need of device status table
this table gives the device type its address and statusit is required to keep a track of many input output requests at the same timethe state of the device can be functioning idle or busyif a device is busy type of request and other parameters are stored in the table entry if more than one processor issues request for the same device then a wait queue is maintained
how do you explain process control block pcb
info needed by the os to control processes
What is burst sort 
build a compact, cache efficient burst trie and then traverse it to create sorted output
define booths multiplication algorithm 
booths multiplication algorithm is a multiplication algorithm that multiplies two signed binary numbers in twos complement notation 
how do you explain cone algorithm 
identify surface points
What is cocktail shaker sort 
a bubble sort traversing the list alternately from front to back and back to front 
Multiprocessor systems have the following advantages.
Increased Throughput: Multiprocessor systems have better performance than single processor systems. It has shorter response time and higher throughput. User gets more work in less time.Reduced Cost: Multiprocessor systems can cost less than equivalent multiple single processor systems. They can share resources such as memory, peripherals etc.Increased reliability: Multiprocessor systems have more than one processor, so if one processor fails, complete system will not stop. In these systems, functions are divided among the different processors.
define the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
What is Fischer-yates shuffle
randomly shuffle a finite set
what do you mean by cascading termination
if one process is terminated its related processes are also terminated abnormally then it is called cascade terminationit occurs in the case of parent child processif the parent process is terminated normally or abnormally then all its child processes must be terminatedthe parent is existing and the operating system does not allow a child to continue if its parent terminatesthis child process is the new process created by the process called the parent process
how do you explain graph search algorithm
if each vertex in a graph is to be traversed by a treebased algorithm such as dfs or bfs then the algorithm must be called at least once for each connected component of the graph 
What is steinhaus-johnson-trotter algorithm 
generate permutations by transposing elements
what do you mean by leaf node
leaf nodeanode with no children is called leaf node they are also referred as terminal nodes in the given figure2511 and 4 are leaf nodes
how do you explain needle manwunsch algorithm
find global alignment between two sequences
What is introsoft 
begin with quicksort and switch to heapsort when the recursion depth exceeds a certain level.
how do you explain a loop
an edge of a graph which connects to itself is called a loop or sling
define worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm
o1 auxiliary
what do you mean by patience sorting
a variant of the algorithm efficiently computes the length of a longest increasing subsequence in a given array
What Is The Type Of The Algorithm Used In Solving The 8 Queens Problem?							
Backtracking.							
What is back tracking approach
In this approach, multiple solutions are built incrementally and abandoned when it is determined that they cannot lead to a valid full solution.
what do you mean by gospers algorithm
find sums of hypergeometric terms that are themselves hypergeometric terms
What is beam stack search
integrates backtracking with beam search
define beam stack search
integrates backtracking with beam search
What Are Device Drivers?
Device drivers provides a standard means of representing I/O devices that maybe manufactured by different companies. This prevents conflicts whenever such devices are incorporated in a systems unit.
Why You Need A Data Structure?										
A data structure helps you to understand the relationship of one data element with the other and organize it within the memory. Sometimes the organization might be simple and can be very clearly visioned.		Eg; List of names of months in a year Linear Data Structure	 List of historical places in the world- Non-Linear Data Structure. A data structure helps you to analyze the data	 store it and organize it in a logical and mathematical manner.					
State The Advantages Of Using Postfix Notations?							
Need not worry about the rules of precedence.Need not worry about the rules for right to left associativity.Need not need parenthesis to override the above rules.			
how do you explain spooling
spooling is normally associated with printing when different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer
define delaunay triangularisation
delaunay triangulation also known as a delone triangulation for a given set p of discrete points in a plane is a triangulation dtp such that no point in p is inside the circumcircle of any triangle in dtp
what do you mean by cipollas algorithm 
cipollas algorithm is a technique for solving a congruence of the form
What is gospers algorithm
find sums of hypergeometric terms that are themselves hypergeometric terms
how do you explain level set method 
a numerical technique for tracking interfaces and shapes
What is a Real-Time System?
A real time process is a process that must respond to the events within a certain time period. A real time operating system is an operating system that can run real time processes successfully
what do you mean by ternary search 
a technique for finding the minimum or maximum of a function that is either strictly increasing and then strictly decreasing or vice versa
how do you explain asymmetric clustering
in asymmetric clustering a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server that machine takes the active servers role should the server fails
State The Merit Of Linked Representation Of Binary Trees?								
Insertions and deletions in a node involve no data movement except the rearrangement of pointers	 hence less processing time.						
what do you mean by direct access method
direct access method is based on a disk model of a file such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records it allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written direct access is 
what do you mean by monte carlo algorithm
in computing a monte carlo algorithm is a randomized algorithm whose output may be incorrect with a certain typically small probability
how do you explain the difference between micro kernel and macro kernel
micro kernel micro kernel is the kernel which runs minimal performance affecting services for operating system in micro kernel operating system all other operations are performed by processormacro kernel macro kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel
what do you mean by rr scheduling algorithm
rr roundrobin scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for timesharing systems a circular queue is setup in such a way that the cpu scheduler goes around that queue allocating cpu to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds
Trigram search 
search for text when the exact syntax or spelling of the target object is not precisely known
how do you explain best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
the best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is on
what do you mean by shoe lace algorithm 
determine the area of a polygon whose vertices are described by ordered pairs in the plane
State The Difference Between Queues And Linked Lists?							
The difference between queues and linked lists is that insertions and deletions may occur anywhere in the linked list	 but in queues insertions can be made only in the rear end and deletions can be made only in the front end.								
define smp
to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used in essence with smp any process or threads can be assigned to any processor
what do you mean by a weighted graph
a graph in which weights are assigned to every edge is called a weighted graph
how do you explain monte carlo algorithm
in computing a monte carlo algorithm is a randomized algorithm whose output may be incorrect with a certain typically small probability
What is time- sharing system?
In a Time-sharing system, the CPU executes multiple jobs by switching among them, also known as multitasking. This process happens so fast that users can interact with each program while it is running.
What are the different types of scheduling algorithms?
This is the advanced OS Interview Questions which is asked in an interview. The different types of scheduling algorithms are as follows-First come First serve(FCFS): First came process is served first-Round Robin(RR): Each process is given a quantum amount of time-Shortest job first(SJF): Process with lowest execution time is given first preference-Priority scheduling (ps): Priority value called (nice value) is used for selecting process. Its value is from 0 to 99. 0 being maxed and 99 being least.
If You Are Using C Language To Implement The Heterogeneous Linked List	 What Pointer Type Will You Use?						
The heterogeneous linked list contains different data types in its nodes and we need a link	 pointer to connect them. It is not possible to use ordinary pointers for this. So we go for void pointer. Void pointer is capable of storing pointer to any type as it is a generic pointer type.						
What is a drawback of MVT?
It does not have the features like ability to support multiple processors,virtual storage,source level debugging.When the OS at the explicit request of another process creates a process, this action is called process spawning.
define the advantage of a multiprocessor system
as many as processors are increased you will get the considerable increment in throughput it is cost effective also because they can share resources so the overall reliability increases 
What is longest path problem
find a simple path of maximum length in a given graph
What are the various application fields where binary search trees are used?							
Some of them are as follows:		Indexing			Encoding messages using Huffman tree	Arithmetic expression evaluation			Sorting data by using Heap tree							
define lexicographic breadth search
a linear time algorithm for ordering the vertices of a graph
How is algorithm designed for distributed computers
distributed algorithms divide the problem into more symmetrical or asymmetrical subproblems and collect the results back together. 
State The Demerits Of Linked Representation Of Binary Trees?								
Given a node structure	 it is difficult to determine its parent node.Memory spaces are wasted for storing null pointers for the nodes	 which have one or no sub-trees.It requires dynamic memory allocation	 which is not possible in some programming language.						
Difference between Primary storage and secondary storage?
Primary memory is the main memory (Hard disk, RAM) where the operating system resides.Secondary memory can be external devices like CD, floppy magnetic discs etc. secondary storage cannot be directly accessed by the CPU and is also external memory storage.
Define Circular List?							
In linear list the next field of the last node contain a null pointer	 when a next field in the last node contain a pointer back to the first node it is called circular list.Advantages  From any point in the list it is possible to reach at any other point.							
what do you mean by pollards p1 algorithm 
it is a specialpurpose algorithm meaning that it is only suitable for integers with specific types of factors it is the simplest example of an algebraicgroup factorisation algorithm
what do you mean by the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
What Member Function Places A New Node At The End Of The Linked List?							
The appendNode() member function places a new node at the end of the linked list. The appendNode() requires an integer representing the current data of the node.			
define euclids algorithm
euclids algorithm to compute the greatest common divisor gcd
how do you explain match rating approach 
match rating approach mra is a phonetic algorithm developed by western airlines in 1977 for the indexation and comparison of homophonous names
how do you explain tree search 
tree traversal also known as tree search is a form of graph traversal and refers to the process of visiting checking andor updating each node in a tree data structure exactly once
how do you explain binary gcd algorithm
efficient way of calculating gcd
how do you explain the worst case complexity of binary search
the worst case complexity of binary search is o1 
define caching
caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process a cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed
Explain what is Unity in Ubuntu? How can you add new entries to the launcher?
In Ubuntu, Unity is the default windows manager.  On the left side of the Ubuntu, it introduces the launcher and Dash to start programs.In order to add new entries to the launcher, you can create a file name like .desktop and then drag the file on the launcher.
how do you explain jump search
linear search on a smaller subset of the sequence
What is buchbergers algorithm
finds a Grbner basis
what do you mean by multitasking
multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time however only one application is active at a time for user interaction although some applications can run behind the scene
Briefly explain FCFS.
FCFS stands for First-come, first-served. It is one type of scheduling algorithm. In this scheme, the process that requests the CPU first is allocated the CPU first. Implementation is managed by a FIFO queue.
What is mutant?
In Windows NT a mutant provides kernel mode or user mode mutual exclusion with the notion of ownership.
how do you explain hirschberhs algorithm
finds the least cost sequence alignment between two sequences as measured by their levenshtein distance
what do you mean by level set method 
a numerical technique for tracking interfaces and shapes
What is priority queue
priority queue is an abstract data type which is like a regular queue or stack data structure, but where additionally each element has a "priority" associated with it
What do you mean by Binary tree?							
A binary tree is a specific type of tree in which each node can have a maximum of two children. These child nodes are typically distinguished as the left and the right child.							
define sss
state space search traversing a game tree in a bestfirst fashion similar to that of the a search algorithm
what do you mean by root partition
root partition is where the operating system kernel is located it also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time
what do you mean by knuth morris pratt algorithm
substring search which bypasses reexamination of matched characters
define selection algorithm 
in computer science a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array such a number is called the kth order statistic
how do you explain spooling
spooling is a process in which data is temporarily gathered to be used and executed by a device program or the system it is associated with printing when different applications send output to the printer at the same time spooling keeps these all jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer 
What are the advantage of using threads?
The main advantages of using threads are No special communication mechanism is required.Readability and simplicity of program structure increases with threads. System becomes more efficient with less requirement of system resources.
define ditchmokotoff sounded 
daitchmokotoff soundex dm soundex is a phonetic algorithm
how do you explain process migration
it is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine
how do you explain the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
what do you mean by raid 
this is the basic os interview questions which is asked in an interview raid stands for redundant array of independent disks to improve overall performance the data is stored redundantly and used whenever required
define back tracking approach
in this approach multiple solutions are built incrementally and abandoned when it is determined that they cannot lead to a valid full solution
what do you mean by convex hull algorithms 
determining the convex hull of a set of points
what do you mean by marshalling
the process of packaging and sending interface method parameters across thread or process boundaries
define polling hellman algorithm
is a specialpurpose algorithm for computing discrete logarithms in a finite abelian group whose order is a smooth integer
how do you explain algorithm design pattern 
techniques for designing and implementing algorithm designs are also called algorithm design patterns
What are the sub-components of I/O manager in Windows NT?
Network redirector/ Server,Cache manager,File systems,Network driver, Device driver.
When an input file is opened, what are the possible errors that may occur?
1st condition may be that the file is protected against access, here it terminates abruptly.2nd condition may be that file exists, then we need to create the output file.If file with the same name exists then it may be deleted or program may be aborted. In another case the system may ask the user to replace the existing file or abort the program.
what do you mean by matching wildcards 
an algorithm for matching wildcards also known as a globbing is useful in comparing text strings that may contain wildcard syntax
how do you explain fordfulkerson algorithm 
computes the maximum flow in a graph
define throughput
the number of processes completed  time unit
define difference between straight forward recursion and dynamic recursion 
the difference between dynamic programming and straightforward recursion is in caching or memoization of recursive calls 
What is tree search 
tree traversal (also known as tree search) is a form of graph traversal and refers to the process of visiting (checking and/or updating) each node in a tree data structure, exactly once.
What is graham scan 
Graham's scan is a method of finding the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane with time complexity O(n log n)
What is the worst case performance of selection sort?							
The worst case performance of selection sort is O(n2).							
how do you explain dinics algorithm 
dinicsalgorithm is a strongly polynomial algorithm for computing the maximum flow in a flow network
what do you mean by semaphore
semaphore is a protected variable or abstract data type that is used to lock the resource being used the value of the semaphore indicates the status of a common resource
how do you explain an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
What is pre-emptive and non-preemptive scheduling?
Preemptive scheduling: The preemptive scheduling is prioritized. The highest priority process should always be the process that is currently utilized.,Non-Preemptive scheduling: When a process enters the state of running, the state of that process is not deleted from the scheduler until it finishes its service time.
how do you explain nos
nos is short for network operating system it is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network including filefolder sharing
define thrashing
thrashing is a phenomenon in virtual memory scheme when the processor spends most of its time in swapping pages rather than executing instructions 
How do you classify algorithms
One  way of classifying algorithms is by their design methodology or paradigm.
What is pollards kangaroo algorithm 
an algorithm for solving the discrete logarithm problem
What Factors Determine Whether A Detection-algorithm Must Be Utilized In A Deadlock Avoidance System?
One is that it depends on how often a deadlock is likely to occur under the implementation of this algorithm. The other has to do with how many processes will be affected by deadlock when this algorithm is applied.
how do you explain a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
what do you mean by line segment intersection
finding whether lines intersect usually with a sweep line algorithm
how do you explain bidirectional search 
bidirectional search is a graph search algorithm that finds a shortest path from an initial vertex to a goal vertex in a directed graph
define chain search 
a recursive algorithm for determining roots of polynomials defined over a finite field
What Is Linked List ?							
Linked List is one of the fundamental data structures. It consists of a sequence of ? nodes	 each containing arbitrary data fields and one or two (links) pointing to the next and/or previous nodes. A linked list is a self-referential datatype because it contains a pointer or link to another data of the same type. Linked lists permit insertion and removal of nodes at any point in the list in constant time	 but do not allow random access.					
define worst case efficiency of linear search
the best case efficiency of linear search is on
how do you explain merge sorting
comparisonbased sorting algorithm
define a binary semaphore what is its use
a binary semaphore is one which takes only 0 and 1 as values they are used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes
What is gauss-legendre algorithm 
computes the digits of pi
What do you understand by transaction atomicity?
The transaction process can be considered to be a series of read and write operations upon some data which is followed by a commit operation. By transaction atomicity it means that if a transaction is not completed successfully then the transaction must be aborted and any changes that the transactions did while execution must be roll backed. It means that a transaction must appear as a single operation that cannot be divided. This ensures that integrity of the data that is being updated is maintained. If the concept of atomicity in transaction is not used any transaction that is aborted midway may result in data to be inconsistent as there might be a possibility two transactions may be sharing the same data value.
define direct access method
direct access method is based on a disk model of a file such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records it allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written direct access is 
What Are The Primary Functions Of Vfs?
VFS, or Virtual File System, separates file system generic operations from their implementation by defining a clean VFS interface. It is also based on a file-representation structure known as vnode, which contains a numerical designator needed to support network file systems.
what do you mean by linear interpolation 
a method of curve fitting using linear polynomials
What is serial algorithm
Algorithms are usually discussed with the assumption that computers execute one instruction of an algorithm at a time. Those computers are sometimes called serial computers An algorithm designed for such an environment is called a serial algorithm, 
define addition chain exponentiation
the classic ways to round numbers
how do you explain the worst case performance of binary search
the worst case performance of binary search is olog n
define euclidean minimum spanning tree 
algorithms for computing the minimum spanning tree of a set of points in the plane
define thrashing
thrashing occurs when the processor is spending most of its time in swapping pages instead of executing the instructions
What Do You Mean By Articulation Point?						
If a graph is not biconnected	 the vertices whose removal would disconnect the graph are known as articulation points.					
define soundex
soundex is a phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound
What is convex hull algorithms 
determining the convex hull of a set of points
how do you explain the worst case performance of selection sort
the worst case performance of selection sort is on2
What are deterministic algorithms 
Deterministic algorithms solve the problem with exact decision at every step of the algorithm 
how do you explain significance of    
the symbol  tells the computer that you are declaring a pointer actually it depends on contextin a statement like int ptr the  tells that you are declaring a pointerin a statement like int i  ptr it tells that you want to assign value pointed to by ptr to variable ithe symbol  is also called as indirection operator dereferencing operator
define continuous algorithms 
an algorithm operating on data that represents continuous quantities even though this data is represented by discrete approximationssuch algorithms are studied in numerical analysis or
Draw the structure of a linked list.							
first part represent data and second part represent address of next node							
define the purpose of an io status information
io status information provides info about which io devices are to be allocated for a particular process it also shows which files are opened and other io device state
how do you explain ftdisk
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
define caching
caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process a cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed
define the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 queens problem
backtracking
Write an algorithm for inserting a node in a Singly-Linked list	 if list is empty .						
Allocate memory for the new node.	Assign a value to the data field of the new node.Make the next field of the new node point to NULL.		Make START point to the new node							
what do you mean by schonhagestrassen algorithm 
the schnhagestrassen algorithm is an asymptotically fast multiplication algorithm for large integers 
what do you mean by baileyborwein plouffe formula
a spigot algorithm for the computation of the nth binary digit of p
what do you mean by binary gcd algorithm
efficient way of calculating gcd
how do you explain the basic difference between preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling
preemptive scheduling allows interruption of a process while it is executing and taking the cpu to another process while nonpreemptive scheduling ensures that a process keeps the cpu under control until it has completed execution
Classify the use of algorithm
Algorithms can be  used to perform calculation, data processing, and automated reasoning tasks.
What is kernel? 
Kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system which provides basic services for all parts of the OS.
define floyds cyclefinding algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations
What is ditch-mokotoff sounded 
DaitchMokotoff Soundex (DM Soundex) is a phonetic algorithm
What is Throughput
The number of processes completed / time unit.
what do you mean by the use of threaded binary tree
in threaded binary tree the null pointers are replaced by some addresses the left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor
Explain the basic functions of process management.
Important functions of process management are Creation and deletion of system processes.Creation and deletion of users.CPU scheduling andProcess communication and synchronization.
how do you explain a priority queue
the priority queue is a data structure in which the intrinsic ordering of the elements numeric or alphabetic determines the result of its basic operation it is of two typesthey are ascending priority queue here smallest item can be removed insertion is arbitrarydescending priority queue here largest item can be removed insertion is arbitrary
what do you mean by a loop
an edge of a graph which connects to itself is called a loop or sling
what do you mean by ahocorasick substring problem 
based algorithm for finding all substring matches to any of a finite set of strings
how do you explain warnsdorffs rule 
warnsdorfs rule is a heuristic for finding a knights tour
Why It Is Said That Searching A Node In A Binary Search Tree Is Efficient Than That Of A Simple Binary Tree?
In binary search tree	 the nodes are arranged in such a way that the left node is having less data value than root node value and the right nodes are having larger value than that of root. Because of this while searching any node the value of the target node will be compared with the parent node and accordingly either left sub branch or right sub branch will be searched. So	 one has to compare only particular branches. Thus searching becomes efficient.					
List out few of the applications that make use of Multi-linked Structures Sparse matrix	
 Index generation. 						
What is the best case efficiency of binary search?							
The best case efficiency of binary search is O(1).							
define boyer moore hors pool algorithm 
simplification of boyermoore 
What Do You Mean By General Trees?								
General tree is a tree with nodes having any number of children.								
what do you mean by alpha max plus beta min algorithm 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
define a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
What is time-stamping?
It is a technique proposed by Lamport, used to order events in a distributed system without the use of clocks. This scheme is intended to order events consisting of the transmission of messages. Each system 'i' in the network maintains a counter Ci. Every time a system transmits a message, it increments its counter by 1 and attaches the time-stamp Ti to the message. When a message is received, the receiving system 'j' sets its counter Cj to 1 more than the maximum of its current value and the incoming time-stamp Ti. At each site, the ordering of messages is determined by the following rules: For messages x from site i and y from site j, x precedes y if one of the following conditions holds....(a) if Ti<Tj or (b) if Ti=Tj and i<j.
define fcfs
fcfs stands for first come first served it is a type of scheduling algorithm in this scheme if a process requests the cpu first it is allocated to the cpu first its implementation is managed by a fifo queue
define an assembler
an assembler acts as a translator for lowlevel language assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the assembler into machine language
how do you explain gnome sort 
the gnome sort is a sorting algorithm which is similar to insertion sort in that it works with one item at a time but gets the item to the proper place by a series of swaps similar to a bubble sort
how do you explain bead sort 
the bead sort operation can be compared to the manner in which beads slide on parallel poles such as on an abacus
Give an example of Dijkstra algorithm 
Road networks 
What is a thread?
A thread is a basic unit of CPU utilization. It consists of a thread ID, program counter, register set and a stack. 
how do you explain difference between micro kernel and macro kernel
micro kernel is a kernel which run services those are minimal for operating system performance in this kernel all other operations are performed by processormacro kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel in monolithic kernel all operating system code is in single executable image
what do you mean by a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization in general a thread is composed of a thread id program counter register set and the stack
what do you mean by the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
What Do You Mean By Secondary Clustering?							
Although quadratic probing elimnates primary clustering	 elements that hash to the same position will probe the same alternative cells. This is known as secondary clustering.			
define polynomial time
polynomial time if the time is a power of the input size eg the bubble sort algorithm has quadratic time complexity
List The Basic Operations Carried Out In A Linked List?							
The basic operations carried out in a linked list include	Creation of a list,Insertion of a node,Deletion of a node,Modification of a node,Traversal of the list.							
define rounding functions
the principal nth root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
What are the four layers that Windows NT have in order to achieve independence?
Hardware abstraction layer,Kernel,Subsystems andSystem Services.
what do you mean by knapsack problem
the knapsack problem is a problem where there is a set of given items the goal of the problem is to pack the knapsack to get the maximum total value each item has some weight and some value total weight that we can carry is no more than some fixed number x so we must consider weights of items as well as their value
What are the notations used in Evaluation of Arithmetic Expressions using prefix and postfix forms? 							
Polish and Reverse Polish notations. 	Convert the expression ((A + B) *  C  (D  E) ^ (F + G)) to equivalent Prefix and Postfix notations. Prefix Notation:  ^ - * +ABC - DE + FG Postfix Notation:  AB + C * DE - - FG + ^  							
What is cone algorithm 
identify surface points
define quick select 
quickselect is a selection algorithm to find the kth smallest element in an unordered list
define timsort
adaptative algorithm derived from merge sort and insertion sort used in python 23 and up and java se 7
What Method Is Used To Place A Value Onto The Top Of A Stack?							
push() method	 Push is the direction that data is being added to the stack. push() member method places a value onto the top of a stack.						
define a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
What is lavenshtein edit distance 
compute a metric for the amount of difference between two sequences
how do you explain filtered back projection 
efficiently compute the inverse 2dimensional radon transform
how do you explain executive in windows nt
in windows nt executive refers to the operating system code that runs in kernel mode
What are overlays?
Overlays are used to enable a process to be larger than the amount of memory allocated to it. The basic idea of this is that only instructions and data that are needed at any given time are kept in memory.
define a library
it is a file which contains object code for subroutines and data to be used by the other program
what do you mean by starvation and aging
starvation is resource management problem where a process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processesaging is a technique to avoid starvation in a scheduling system
define a realtime system
realtime system is used in the case when rigidtime requirements have been placed on the operation of a processor it contains a well defined and fixed time constraints
define insertion sort 
determine where the current item belongs in the list of sorted ones and insert it there
what do you mean by ditchmokotoff sounded 
daitchmokotoff soundex dm soundex is a phonetic algorithm
what do you mean by smithwaterman algorithm 
find local sequence alignment
how do you explain dangling pointer and how to avoid it
after a call to freep makes a subsequent reference to p illegal ie though the storage to p is freed but the value of paddress remain unchanged so the object at that address may be used as the value of p ie there is no way to detect the illegalityhere p is called dangling pointerto avoid this it is better to set p to null after executing freepthe null pointer value doesnt reference a storage location it is a pointer that doesnt point to anything
What is smith-waterman algorithm 
find local sequence alignment
what do you mean by constant time 
constant time if the time needed by the algorithm is the same regardless of the input size eg an access to an array element
how do you explain the worst case performance of selection sort
the worst case performance of selection sort is on2
what do you mean by the difference between array and stack
stack follows lifo thus the item that is first entered would be the last removedin array the items can be entered or removed in any order basically each member access is done using index no strict order is to be followed here to remove a particular elementarray may be multidiamensional or onediamensional but stack should be onediamensional but both are linear data structure
how do you explain beam search 
beam search is a heuristic search algorithm that explores a graph by expanding the most promising node in a limited set beam search is an optimization of bestfirst search that reduces its memory requirements
how do you explain demand paging
demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the ram then the os brings the missingand required pages from the disk into the ram
define the average case performance of selection sort
the average case performance of selection sort is on2
What is MicroKernel:
It is kernel with a limited service that is with some important services running.Example: QNX-real-time OS
How do you define singly-linked list?							
Singly linked lists contain nodes which have a data field as well as a next field	 which points to the next node in the linked list.						
What is metaphone 
an algorithm for indexing words by their sound, when pronounced in English
what do you mean by a daemon
daemon  disk and execution monitor is a process that runs in the background without users interaction they usually start at the booting time and terminate when the system is shut down
Define A Binary Tree?								
A binary tree is a finite set of nodes which is either empty or consists of a root and two disjoint binary trees called the left sub-tree and right sub-tree.			
What are the functions of operating system?
The operating system controls and coordinates the use of hardware among the different processes and applications. It provides the various functionalities to the users. The following are the main job of operating system.Resource utilization,Resource allocation,Process management,Memory management,File management,I/O management, Device management
how do you explain kernel
kernel is the core of every operating system it connects applications to the actual processing of data it also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability
what do you mean by difference between divide and conquer algorithm and dynamic programming 
the main difference between dynamic programming and divide and conquer is that subproblems are more or less independent in divide and conquer whereas subproblems overlap in dynamic programming 
define chews second algorithm 
create quality constrained delaunay triangulations
how do you explain the translation lookaside buffer tlb
in a cached system the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the tlb that aids in faster lookup tlb contains those pagetable entries that have been most recently used normally each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses one to fetch appropriate pagetable entry and one to fetch the desired data using tlb 
how do you explain a spanning tree 
a spanning tree is a tree associated with a network all the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized 
What Is An Expression Tree?							
An expression tree is a tree which is build from infix or prefix or postfix expression. Generally	 in such a tree	 the leaves are operands and other nodes are operators.		
how do you explain caching
caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process a cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed
What Are The Properties Of Binary Heap?								
Structure Property.Heap Order Property.							
What are page frames?
Page frames are the fixed size contiguous areas into which the main memory is divided by the virtual memory.
what do you mean by exhaustive search
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
how do you explain cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
What is context switching?
Transferring the control from one process to other process requires saving the state of the old process and loading the saved state for new process. This task is known as context switching.
define a loop
an edge of a graph which connects to itself is called a loop or sling
How are algorithm  used
Algorithms  are used in  calculation, data processing, and automated reasoning tasks.
Where is recursive algorithm used 
Functional programming and Iterative algorithms
define backtracking 
backtracking is a general algorithm for finding all or some solutions to some computational problems notably constraint satisfaction problems that incrementally builds candidates to the solutions and abandons a candidate backtracks as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution
What is DRAM?  
Dynamic Ram stores the data in the form of Capacitance, and Static RAM stores the data in Voltages.
define monolithic kernel
it can be considered as a whole kernel that is a fullfledged kernel which provides all the services are runningexample unix
What is B*
In computer science, B* (pronounced "B star") is a best-first graph search algorithm that finds the least-cost path from a given initial node to any goal node (out of one or more possible goals).
Write an algorithm to insert a node at the end of the list	 when the list is not empty.						
The algorithm for inserting a node at the end of the list as follows:Allocate memory for the new node.	Assign value to the data field of the new node Make the next field of the new node point to successor of LAST.	Make the next field of LAST point to new node.	Make LAST point to the new node.							
define medium term scheduling
medium term scheduling is part of the swapping function this relates to processes that are in a blocked or suspended state they are swapped out of realmemory until they are ready to execute the swappingin decision is based on memorymanagement criteria
Explain the booting process of a Windows XP system.
As the computer is powered on, the BIOS begins execution from ROM, it loads and executes the bootstrap loader. The NTLDR program is loaded from the root directory of the system disk and determines which boot disk contains the operating system.NTLDR loads the HAL library, kernel and system hive. The system hive indicates the required boot drivers and loads them one by one. Kernel execution begins by initializing the system and creating two processes: the system process containing all internal worker threads and the first user-mode initialization process: SMSS. SMSS further initializes the system by establishing paging files and loading device drivers. SMSS creates two processesWINLOGON, which brings up the rest of the system and CSRSS, the Win32 subsystem process.
What so bellman-ford algorithm 
The BellmanFord algorithm is an algorithm that computes shortest paths from a single source vertex to all of the other vertices in a weighted digraph.
what do you mean by gnome sort 
the gnome sort is a sorting algorithm which is similar to insertion sort in that it works with one item at a time but gets the item to the proper place by a series of swaps similar to a bubble sort
what do you mean by point set registration algorithms
finds the transformation between two point sets to optimally align them
what do you mean by the best case performance of selection sort
the best case performance of selection sort is on2
what do you mean by a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization in general a thread is composed of a thread id program counter register set and the stack
What are the methods available in storing sequential files ? 							
Straight merging	  Natural merging	  Polyphase sort	  Distribution of Initial runs. 				
define virtual memory
virtual memory is hardware technique where the system appears to have more memory that it actually does this is done by timesharing the physical memory and storage parts of the memory one disk when they are not actively being used
how do you explain direct access method
direct access method is based on a disk model of a file such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records it allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written direct access is advantageous when accessing large amounts of information
What Are Overlays?
Overlays are used to enable a process to be larger than the amount of memory allocated to it. The basic idea of this is that only instructions and data that are needed at any given time are kept in memory.
What is continuous algorithms 
An algorithm operating on data that represents continuous quantities, even though this data is represented by discrete approximationssuch algorithms are studied in numerical analysis; or
What Is The Need For Extendible Hashing?							
If either open addressing hashing or separate chaining hashing is used	 the major problem is that collisions could cause several blocks to be examined during a Find	 even for a well-distributed hash table. Extendible hashing allows a find to be performed in two disk accesses. Insertions also require few disk accesses.			
Define Right-in Threaded Tree?	
Right-in threaded binary tree is defined as one in which threads replace NULL pointers in nodes with empty right sub-trees.							
what do you mean by the concept of reentrancy
it is a very useful memory saving technique that is used for multiprogrammed time sharing systems it provides functionality that multiple users can share a single copy of program during the same period it has two key aspectstthey are the program code cannot modify itselfthe local data for each user process must be stored separately 
define the basic difference between preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling
preemptive scheduling allows interruption of a process while it is executing and taking the cpu to another process while nonpreemptive scheduling ensures that a process keeps the cpu under control until it has completed execution
how do you explain coloring algorithm 
graph colouring algorithm
how do you explain fuzzy algorithm 
fuzzy logic is an approach to computing based on degrees of truth rather than the usual true or false
What do you mean by Binary tree?							
A binary tree is a specific type of tree in which each node can have a maximum of two children. These child nodes are typically distinguished as the left and the right child. The structure of a binary tree is shown in the following figure: In the preceeding binary tree	node B is the left child of node A	 and node C is the right child of node A. Similarly	 node D is the left child of node B	and node E is the right child of node B.			
what do you mean by graph search algorithm
if each vertex in a graph is to be traversed by a treebased algorithm such as dfs or bfs then the algorithm must be called at least once for each connected component of the graph 
Describe system calls and its type
System calls works as a mediator between user program and service provided by operating system. In actual situation, functions that make up an API (application program interface) typically invoke the actual system calls on behalf of the application programmer.
define point set registration algorithms
finds the transformation between two point sets to optimally align them
what do you mean by state space search 
state space search is a process used in the field of computer science including artificial intelligence ai in which successive configurations or states of an instance are considered with the intention of finding a goal state with a desired property
What is greedy algorithm
A greedy algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage[1] with the intent of finding a global optimum
how do you explain the purpose of multiprogramming operating system
this acts to be an extension of batch os where main memory can have several jobs at once and they would be executed in a particular order at a particular time
What Do You Mean By Rehashing?			
If the table gets too full	 the running time for the operations will start taking too long and inserts might fail for open addressing with quadratic resolution. A solution to this is to build another table that is about twice as big with the associated new hash function and scan down the entire original hash table	 computing the new hash value for each element and inserting it in the new table. This entire operation is called rehashing.					
how do you explain polynomial time
polynomial time if the time is a power of the input size eg the bubble sort algorithm has quadratic time complexity
how do you explain a named pipe
a traditional pipe is unnamed and can be used only for the communication of related process if unrelated processes are required to communicate  named pipes are required it is a pipe whose access point is a file available on the file system when this file is opened for reading a process is granted access to the reading end of the pipe similarly when the file is opened for writing the process is granted access to writing end of the pipe a named pipe is also referred to as fifo or named fifo
define beam search 
beam search is a heuristic search algorithm that explores a graph by expanding the most promising node in a limited set beam search is an optimization of bestfirst search that reduces its memory requirements
define general problem solver 
any problem that can be expressed as a set of wellformed formulas wffs or horn clauses and that constitute a directed graph with one or more sources viz axioms and sinks viz desired conclusions can be solved
define the worst case performance of selection sort
the worst case performance of selection sort is on2
what do you mean by euler method 
eulers method is a numerical method to solve first order first degree differential equation with a given initial value it is the most basic explicit method for numerical integration of ordinary differential equations and is the simplest rungekutta method 
how do you explain longest path problem
find a simple path of maximum length in a given graph
define borweins algorithm 
an algorithm to calculate the value of 1p
what do you mean by gift wrapping algorithm 
in computational geometry the gift wrapping algorithm is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a given set of point
how do you explain iterative deepening depthfirst search
a state space search strategy
how do you explain kernel 
kernel is the core and essential part of computer operating system that provides basic services for all parts of os
What is smooth sort 
Like heapsort, smoothsort is an in-place algorithm with an upper bound of O(n log n),[2] but it is not a stable.
What Is Multitasking?
Multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time. However, only one application is active at a time for user interaction, although some applications can run behind the scene.
define context switching
context is associated with each process encompassing all the information describing the current execution state of the processwhen the os saves the context of program that is currently running and restores the context of the next ready to run process it is called as context switching it is important for multitasking os
define eide
eide is a bus called enhanced integrated drive electronicsthe input output devices are attached to the computer by a set of wires called the busthe data transfer on a bus are carried out by electronic processes called controllersthe host controller sends messages to device controller and device controller performs the operationsthese device controllers consist of built in cache so that data transfer occurs at faster speed
What are the primary functions of VFS?
VFS, or Virtual File System, separate file system generic operations from their implementation by defining a clean VFS interface. It is based on a file-representation structure known as vnode, which contains a numerical designator needed to support network file systems.
What is a compiler?
A compiler is a program that takes a source code as an input and converts it into an object code. During the compilation process the source code goes through lexical analysis, parsing and intermediate code generation which is then optimized to give final output as an object code.
What are the most important aspects of algorithm design 
important aspects of algorithm design is creating an algorithm that has an efficient run-time
how do you explain context switching
transferring the control from one process to other process requires saving the state of the old process and loading the saved state for new process this task is known as context switching
What is convex hull
the convex hull or convex envelope or convex closure of a set X of points in the Euclidean plane or in a Euclidean space (or, more generally, in an affine space over the reals) is the smallest convex set that contains X.
What is pollards rho algorithm 
It uses only a small amount of space, and its expected running time is proportional to the square root of the size of the smallest prime factor of the composite number being factorized.
What is an idle thread?
The special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found.
What are the advantages of multithreaded programming?
A list of advantages of multithreaded programming are that it enhance the responsiveness to the users.Resource sharing within the process.Economical,Completely utilize the multiprocessing architecture.
What is User program
The instructions to be executed.
What is Krauss matching wildcards algorithm
an open-source non-recursive algorithm
What is algorithm design pattern 
Techniques for designing and implementing algorithm designs are also called algorithm design patterns.
define spooling
spooling is normally associated with printing when different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer
What is quick select 
quickselect is a selection algorithm to find the kth smallest element in an unordered list.
What is the best case performance of selection sort?							
The best case performance of selection sort is O(n2).							
What is Johnsons algorithm 
All pairs shortest path algorithm in sparse weighted directed graph
How is algorithm designed for serial computers
Algorithms are usually discussed with the assumption that computers execute one instruction of an algorithm at a time. Those computers are sometimes called serial computers
What is polling Hellman algorithm
is a special-purpose algorithm for computing discrete logarithms in a finite abelian group whose order is a smooth integer.
What Is Preemptive Multitasking?
Preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs. This in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes.
how do you explain string metrics 
compute a similarity or dissimilarity distance score between two pairs of text strings
Difference Between Calloc And Malloc ?							
malloc allocate n bytes.calloc allocate m times n bytes initialized to 0.							
how do you explain a realtime system
a real time process is a process that must respond to the events within a certain time period a real time operating system is an operating system that can run real time processes successfully
how do you explain minimum spanning tree 
a minimum spanning tree mst or minimum weight spanning tree is a subset of the edges of a connected edgeweighted undirected graph that connects all the vertices together without any cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight
what do you mean by cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
Differentiate between logical and physical address.
Physical addresses are actual addresses used for fetching and storing data in main memory when the process is under execution. Logical addresses are generated by user programs. During process loading, they are converted by the loader into physical address.
how do you explain soundex 
phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound as pronounced in english
How does greedy algorithm work
it works by examining substructures,
what do you mean by a drawback of mvt
they are  theability to support multiple processorsvirtual storagesource level debugging
State The Advantages Of Using Infix Notations?										
It is the mathematical way of representing the expression.It is easier to see visually which operation is done from first to last.							
what do you mean by risch algorithm
an algorithm for the calculus operation of indefinite integration ie finding antiderivatives
how do you explain linear interpolation 
a method of curve fitting using linear polynomials
what do you mean by hungarian algorithm 
algorithm for finding a perfect matching
what do you mean by quick select 
quickselect is a selection algorithm to find the kth smallest element in an unordered list
what do you mean by bitap algorithm 
fuzzy algorithm that determines if strings are approximately equal
how do you explain flash sort 
flashsort is a distribution sorting algorithm showing linear computational complexity for uniformly distributed data sets and relatively little additional memory requirement
Is Windows NT a full blown object oriented operating system? Give reasons.
No Windows NT is not so, because its not implemented in object oriented language and the data structures reside within one executive component and are not represented as objects and it does not support object oriented capabilities.
What Is The Idea Behind Splaying?							
Splaying reduces the total accessing time if the most frequently accessed node is moved towards the root. It does not require to maintain any information regarding the height or balance factor and hence saves space and simplifies the code to some extent.							
how do you explain preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling
preemptive scheduling the preemptive scheduling is prioritized the highest priority process should always be the process that is currently utilizednonpreemptive scheduling when a process enters the state of running the state of that process is not deleted from the scheduler until it finishes its service time
define the worst case performance of binary search
the worst case performance of binary search is olog n
How Are Server Systems Classified?
Server systems can be classified as either computer-server systems or file server systems. In the first case, an interface is made available for clients to send requests to perform an action. In the second case, provisions are available for clients to create, access and update files.
What level of security does Windows NT meets?
C2 level security.
what do you mean by meant by binary tree traversal
traversing a binary tree means moving through all the nodes in the binary tree visiting each node in the tree only once
How is Selection Sort analyzed?							
Selection sort is not difficult to analyze compared to other sorting algorithms since none of the loops depend on the data in the array. Selecting the lowest element requires scanning all n elements (this takes n - 1 comparisons) and then swapping it into the first position. Finding the next lowest element requires scanning the remaining n - 1 elements and so on	 for comparisons. Each of these scans requires one swap for (n-1) elements.						
define context switching 
it is the process of switching the cpu from one process to anotherthis requires to save the state of the old process and loading the saved state for the new processthe context of the process is represented in the process control blockduring switching the system does no useful workhow the address space is preserved and what amount of work is needed depends on the memory management
What are turnaround time and response time?
Turnaround time is the interval between the submission of a job and its completion. Response time is the interval between submission of a request, and the first response to that request.
What is faugere f4 algorithm 
finds a Grbner basis (also mentions the F5 algorithm
define minimum spanning tree 
a minimum spanning tree mst or minimum weight spanning tree is a subset of the edges of a connected edgeweighted undirected graph that connects all the vertices together without any cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight
what do you mean by caching
caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process a cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed
how do you explain bestfirst search 
bestfirst search is a search algorithm which explores a graph by expanding the most promising node chosen according to a specified rule
define uniform costsearch 
a tree search that finds the lowestcost route where costs vary
how do you explain heaps permutation generation algorithm 
interchange elements to generate next permutation
Binary searches can be done on an array[Yes/No]?							
Yes.														
what do you mean by an operating system
an operating system is a program that acts as an intermediary between the user and the computer hardware the purpose of an os is to provide a convenient environment in which user can execute programs in a convenient and efficient manner
how do you explain page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
what is level of a node?							
Level of a node: The distance of a node from the root is called the level of a node. The root always lies at level 0. As move down the tree	 the level of a node increases in such a way that if a node is at level n	 then its children are at level n+1. In preceding figure	 level of node 1 is 0	 level of nodes 7 and 3 are 1 and so on.			
how do you explain incremental heuristic search algorithm 
incremental heuristic search algorithms combine both incremental and heuristic search to speed up searches of sequences of similar search problems which is important in domains that are only incompletely known or change dynamically
define d
an incremental heuristic search algorithm
Classify the Hashing Functions based on the various methods by which the key value is found.							
Direct method  Subtraction method	  Modulo-Division method	  Digit-Extraction method	  Mid-Square method	  Folding method	  Pseudo-random method.   	
What is FtDisk?
It is a fault tolerance disk driver for Windows NT.
how do you explain the purpose of batch operating system
all jobs are submitted at once and are executed in a particular order with any preemption which means that no jobs can be taken unless these complete
List the Coffman's conditions that lead to a deadlock.
Mutual Exclusion only one process may use a critical resource at a time.Hold & Wait  process may be allocated some resources while waiting for others. No Pre-emption is one whereNo resource can be forcible removed from a process holding it.In Circular Wait a closed chain of processes exist such that each process holds at least one resource needed by another process in the chain.
State The Properties Of A Binary Tree?
it is actually a generalised tree.												
What is context switching?
Context is associated with each process encompassing all the information describing the current execution state of the process.When the OS saves the context of program that is currently running and restores the context of the next ready to run process, it is called as context switching. It is important for multitasking OS.
how do you explain bucket sort 
bucket sort or bin sort is a sorting algorithm that works by distributing the elements of an array into a number of buckets
What is  Dispatcher?
Dispatcher module gives control of the CPU to the process selected by the short-term scheduler; this involves: Switching context, Switching to user mode, Jumping to the proper location in the user program to restart that program, dispatch latency  time it takes for the dispatcher to stop one process and start another running.
What is exponential time
Exponential time: if the time is an exponential function of the input size. E.g. Brute-force search.
Give example of graph exploration program
Tree traversal is a special case of graph traversal.
When designing the file structure for an operating system, what attributes are considered?
Typically, the different attributes for a file structure are naming, identifier, supported file types, and location for the files, size, and level of protection.
how do you explain greedy algorithm
a greedy algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage1 with the intent of finding a global optimum
What is uniform binary search
an optimization of the classic binary search algorithm
define spanning tree 
in the mathematical field of graph theory a spanning tree t of an undirected graph g is a subgraph that is a tree which includes all of the vertices of g with minimum possible number of edges
How does counting sort works 
It operates by counting the number of objects that have each distinct key value, and using arithmetic on those counts to determine the positions of each key value in the output sequence
define jump point search
an optimization to a which may reduce computation time by an order of magnitude using further heuristics
What is suffix trees
a suffix tree (also called PAT tree or, in an earlier form, position tree) is a compressed trie containing all the suffixes of the given text as their keys and positions in the text as their values. Suffix trees allow particularly fast implementations of many important string operationsan open-source non-recursive algorithm
what do you mean by monolithic kernel
a monolithic kernel is a kernel which includes all operating system code is in single executable image
Why We Need Cursor Implementation Of Linked Lists?							
Many languages such as BASIC and FORTRAN do not support pointers. If linked lists are required and pointers are not available	 then an alternative implementation must be used known as cursor implementation.						
define best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
the best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is on
What is decrease and conquer algorithms
A simpler variant of divide and conquer is called a decrease and conquer algorithm, that solves an identical subproblem and uses the solution of this subproblem to solve the bigger problem. 
what do you mean by a daemon
daemon is a program that runs in the background without users interaction a daemon runs in a multitasking operating system like unix a daemon is initiated and controlled by special programs known as processes
Paging a memory management function, while multiprogramming a processor management function, are the two interdependent?
Yes.
what do you mean by nysiis
phonetic algorithm improves on soundex
what do you mean by cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
define the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
how do you explain a socket
a socket provides a connection between two applications each endpoint of a communication is a socket
What are different types of linked list?							
Singly-linked list	 Doubly-linked list and Circular linked list						
define an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
What Is Meant By Strongly Connected In A Graph?										
An undirected graph is connected	 if there is a path from every vertex to every other vertex. A directed graph with this property is called strongly connected.			
What is selection algorithm
a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array; such a number is called the kth order statistic.
What operations are implemented in a linked list?							
Various operations implemented on a linked list are insert	 delete	 traverse and search.					
how do you explain the resident set and working set of a process
resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in realmemory at a particular instant working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution relate this to the variablewindow size method for swapping techniques
define jarowinkler distance 
it is a measure of similarity between two strings
Which is the simplest file structure? (a) Sequential  (b) Indexed  (c) Random 							
(a) Sequential 							
how do you explain the relationship between a queue and its underlying array
data stored in a queue is actually stored in an array two indexes front and end will be used to identify the start and end of the queuewhen an element is removed front will be incremented by 1 in case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0 then it will be checked with end if it is greater than end queue is emptywhen an element is added end will be incremented by 1 in case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0 after incrementing it will be checked with front if they are equal queue is full
What is tonelli-shanks algorithm 
The TonelliShanks algorithm (referred to by Shanks as the RESSOL algorithm) is used in modular arithmetic to solve for r in a congruence of the form r2 = n (mod p), where p is a prime: that is, to find a square root of n modulo p.
What Is The Relationship Between A Queue And Its Underlying Array?							
Data stored in a queue is actually stored in an array. Two indexes	 front and end will be used to identify the start and end of the queue.		when an element is removed front will be incremented by 1. In case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0. Then it will be checked with end. If it is greater than end queue is empty.						When an element is added end will be incremented by 1. In case it reaches past the last index available it will be reset to 0. After incrementing it will be checked with front. If they are equal queue is full.					
how do you explain randomised algorithm 
a randomized algorithm is an algorithm that employs a degree of randomness as part of its logic
what do you mean by dameraulaenshtein distance 
dameraulevenshtein distance compute a distance measure between two strings improves on levenshtein distance
What is chain search 
a recursive algorithm for determining roots of polynomials defined over a finite field
Describe Bankers algorithm
Bankers algorithm is one form of deadlock-avoidance in a system. It gets its name from a banking system wherein the bank never allocates available cash in such a way that it can no longer satisfy the needs of all of its customers.
What is bron-kerbosch algorithm 
the BronKerbosch algorithm is an algorithm for finding maximal cliques in an undirected graph.
what do you mean by divide and conquer algorithm
a divide and conquer algorithm repeatedly reduces an instance of a problem to one or more smaller instances of the same problem usually recursively until the instances are small enough to solve easily
how do you explain las vegas algorithm
las vegas algorithm is a randomized algorithm that always gives correct results that is it always produces the correct result or it informs about the failure
how do you explain fragmentation
fragmentation is memory wasted it can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixedsized allocation units or external if we are dealing with systems that have variablesized allocation units
What is bowyer-watson algorithm 
create voronoi diagram in any number of dimensions
what do you mean by timestamping
it is a technique proposed by lamport used to order events in a distributed system without the use of clocks this scheme is intended to order events consisting of the transmission of messages each system i in the network maintains a counter ci every time a system transmits a message it increments its counter by 1 and attaches the timestamp ti to the message when a message is received the receiving system j sets its counter cj to 1 more than the maximum of its current value and the incoming timestamp ti at each site the ordering of messages is determined by the following rules for messages x from site i and y from site j x precedes y if one of the following conditions holdsa if titj or b if titj and ij
what do you mean by graph exploration algorithm
in computer science graph traversal also known as graph search refers to the process of visiting checking andor updating each vertex in a graph such traversals are classified by the order in which the vertices are visited 
define difference between divide and conquer algorithm and dynamic programming 
the main difference between dynamic programming and divide and conquer is that subproblems are more or less independent in divide and conquer whereas subproblems overlap in dynamic programming 
what do you mean by kirkpatrickseidel algorithm 
is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a set of points in the plane
define meant by armstickiness
if one or a few processes have a high access rate to data on one track of a storage disk then they may monopolize the device by repeated requests to that track this generally happens with most common device scheduling algorithms lifo sstf cscan etc highdensity multisurface disks are more likely to be affected by this than low density ones
define a realtime system
a real time process is a process that must respond to the events within a certain time period a real time operating system is an operating system that can run real time processes successfully
what do you mean by multiplication algorithms
fast multiplication of two numbers
What is gale-gale-shapely algorithm
solves the stable marriage problem
What is booths multiplication algorithm 
Booth's multiplication algorithm is a multiplication algorithm that multiplies two signed binary numbers in two's complement notation. 
define line segment intersection
finding whether lines intersect usually with a sweep line algorithm
what do you mean by throughput
the number of processes completed  time unit
define longest common subsequence problem
find the longest subsequence common to all sequences in a set of sequences
how do you explain spectral layout 
spectral layout is a class of algorithm for drawing graphs
What is longest increasing subsequence problem
Find the longest increasing subsequence of a given sequence
define heaps permutation generation algorithm 
interchange elements to generate next permutation
what do you mean by aging in operating system
aging is a technique used to avoid the starvation in resource scheduling system
what do you mean by division algorithms 
for computing quotient andor remainder of two numbers
how do you explain mutant
in windows nt a mutant provides kernel mode or user mode mutual exclusion with the notion of ownership
What is linear time 
Linear time: if the time is proportional to the input size. E.g. the traverse of a list.
define bkm algorithm 
for computing a numbers multiplicative inverse reciprocal
what do you mean by the purpose of realtime operating system
here a specified time is allotted for each job and it is usually a critical application pertaining to military operations satellites
how do you explain a queue
a queue is an ordered collection of items from which items may be deleted at one end front end and items inserted at the other end rear endit obeys fifo rule there is no limit to the number of elements a queue contains
define longest common substring problem
find the longest string or strings that is a substring or are substrings of two or more strings
define a simple path
a path in a diagram inwhich the edges are distinct is called a simple path it is also called as edge simple
What is worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm?							
Worst case = O(n2) and average case = O(n2).							
what do you mean by a device queue
a list of processes waiting for a particular io device is called device queue
What is spooling?
Spooling is normally associated with printing. When different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time, spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer.
What would happen if bubble sort didn't keep track of the number of swaps made on each pass through the list?							
The algorithm wouldn't know when to terminate as it would have no way of knowing when the list was in sorted order.											
how do you explain system stack
each process has one or more lifo stacks associated with it used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system callsprocess control block pcb info needed by the os to control processes
What is a library?
It is a file which contains object code for subroutines and data to be used by the other program.
What is comb sort 
The basic idea is to eliminate turtles, or small values near the end of the list
what do you mean by multitasking
multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time however only one application is active at a time for user interaction although some applications can run behind the scene
define rr scheduling algorithm
rr roundrobin scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for timesharing systems a circular queue is setup in such a way that the cpu scheduler goes around that queue allocating cpu to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds
how do you explain gang scheduling
a set of related threads is scheduled to run on a set of processors at the same time on a 1to1 basis closely related threads  processes may be scheduled this way to reduce synchronization blocking and minimize process switching group scheduling predated this strategy
State The Different Types Of Linked Lists?							
The different types of linked list include singly linked list	 doubly linked list and circular linked list.						
define dangling pointer and how to avoid it
after a call to freep makes a subsequent reference to p illegal ie though the storage to p is freed but the value of paddress remain unchanged so the object at that address may be used as the value of p ie there is no way to detect the illegalityhere p is called dangling pointerto avoid this it is better to set p to null after executing freepthe null pointer value doesnt reference a storage location it is a pointer that doesnt point to anything
what do you mean by dices coefficient 
a similarity measure related to the jaccard index
What are necessary conditions for dead lock?
Mutual exclusion (where at least one resource is non-sharable), Hold and wait (where a process holds one resource and waits for other resource),No preemption (where the resources cant be preempted), Circular wait (where p[i] is waiting for p[j] to release a resource
Define A Tree?							
A tree is a collection of nodes. The collection can be empty; otherwise	 a tree consists of a  distinguished node r	 called the root	 and zero or more nonempty (sub) trees T1	 T2		Tk	 each of whose roots are connected by a directed edge from r.
what do you mean by selection algorithm
a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array such a number is called the kth order statistic
define match rating approach 
match rating approach mra is a phonetic algorithm developed by western airlines in 1977 for the indexation and comparison of homophonous names
What is timsort
adaptative algorithm derived from merge sort and insertion sort. Used in Python 2.3 and up, and Java SE 7.
define extended euclidean algorithm 
also solves the equation ax  by  c
Give types to identify the complexity
Constant time, linear time, logarithmic time, polynomial time, exponential time
How is recursive algorithm related to data structures 
repetitive constructs like loops and sometimes additional data structures like stacks to solve the given problems. 
What is logical and physical addresses space?
Logical address space is generated from CPU; it bound to a separate physical address space is central to proper memory management. Physical address space is seen by the memory unit. Logical address space is virtual address space. Both these address space will be same at compile time but differ at execution time.
how do you explain bowyerwatson algorithm 
create voronoi diagram in any number of dimensions
What is D*
an incremental heuristic search algorithm.
how do you explain an operating system
an operating system is a program that acts as an intermediary between the user and the computer hardware the purpose of an os is to provide a convenient environment in which user can execute programs in a convenient and efficient manner
how do you explain starvation in operating system
starvation is resource management problem in this problem a waiting process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processes
what do you mean by burst sort 
build a compact cache efficient burst trie and then traverse it to create sorted output
what do you mean by transitive closure 
find the transitive closure of a given binary relation
what do you mean by a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
what do you mean by process migration
it is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine
how do you explain oddeven sort
a relatively simple sorting algorithm developed originally for use on parallel processors with local interconnections 
What is coloring algorithm 
Graph colouring algorithm
what do you mean by the data structures used to perform recursion
stack because of its lifo last in first out property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls
define babystep gain step
the babystep giantstep is a meetinthemiddle algorithm for computing the discrete logarithm
When Does The Condition 'rendezvous' Arise?
In message passing, it is the condition in which, both, the sender and receiver are blocked until the message is delivered.
define the data structures used to perform recursion 
stack because of its lifo last in first out property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls   every recursive function has its equivalent iterative nonrecursive function even when such equivalent iterative procedures are written explicit stack is to be used
how do you explain the difference between logical address space and physical address space
logical address space specifies the address that is generated by cpu on the other hand physical address space specifies the address that is seen by the memory unit
define leaf node
leaf nodeanode with no children is called leaf node they are also referred as terminal nodes in the given figure2511 and 4 are leaf nodes
define process control block pcb
info needed by the os to control processes
State The Rules To Be Followed During Infix To Prefix Conversions?							
Fully parenthesize the expression starting from left to right. During parenthesizing	 the operators having higher precedence are first parenthesized.Move the operators one by one to their left	 such that each operator replaces their corresponding left  parenthesis.The part of the expression	 which has been converted into prefix is to be treated as single operand.Once the expression is converted into prefix form	 remove all parenthesis.						
what do you mean by best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
the best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is on
What is kosrajus problem
Kosaraju's algorithm (also known as the KosarajuSharir algorithm) is a linear time algorithm to find the strongly connected components of a directed graph.
what do you mean by the purpose of an io status information
io status information provides information about which io devices are to be allocated for a particular process it also shows which files are opened and other io device state
What are the steps in algorithm design 
Problem definition,Development of a model,Specification of the algorithm,Designing an algorithm,Checking the correctness of the algorithm,Analysis of algorithm,Implementation of algorithm,Program testing,Documentation preparation
how do you explain linear programming 
when searching for optimal solutions to a linear function bound to linear equality and inequality constraints the constraints of the problem can be used directly in producing the optimal solutions
Which Process Places Data At The Back Of The Queue?							
Enqueue is the process that places data at the back of the queue.							
how do you explain the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
how do you explain non comparison sort 
the sorting in which there is no comparison with adjacent elements
What is kasanes algorithm
finds maximum sub-array of any size
define selection sorts
convert the list into a heap keep removing the largest element from the heap and adding it to the end of the list
What are the different types of scheduling algorithms?
The scheduling algorithms decide which processes in the ready queue are to be allocated to the CPU for execution. Scheduling algorithms can be broadly classified on the basis of Preemptive algorithms,Round Robin Scheduling,Shortest Job First Scheduling (can be both),Priority Scheduling (can be both),Non-preemptive.
What are the key object oriented concepts used by Windows NT?
Encapsulation, Object class and instance.
what do you mean by meant by armstickiness
if one or a few processes have a high access rate to data on one track of a storage disk then they may monopolize the device by repeated requests to that track this generally happens with most common device scheduling algorithms lifo sstf cscan etc highdensity multisurface disks are more likely to be affected by this than low density ones
how do you explain suffix trees
a suffix tree also called pat tree or in an earlier form position tree is a compressed trie containing all the suffixes of the given text as their keys and positions in the text as their values suffix trees allow particularly fast implementations of many important string operationsan opensource nonrecursive algorithm
define tarjans offline lowest common ancestors algorithm
compute lowest common ancestors for pairs of nodes in a tree
how do you explain lavenshtein edit distance 
compute a metric for the amount of difference between two sequences
what do you mean by ukkonens algorithms
a lineartime online algorithm for constructing suffix trees
What is semaphore?
Semaphore is a variable, whose status reports common resource, Semaphore is of two types one is Binary semaphore and other is Counting semaphore.
How do you link algorithms and logics 
An algorithm may be viewed as controlled logical deduction
define matching triangles
reconstruct twodimensional surface geometry from an unstructured point cloud
how do you explain smooth sort 
like heapsort smoothsort is an inplace algorithm with an upper bound of on log n2 but it is not a stable
What is dead lock?
Deadlock is a situation or condition where the two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start. This result both the processes to hang.
What is truncation method?							
This method is used to compute the address of a record. In this method	 a part of the numeric key is considered as an offset address of the corresponding record.						
what do you mean by dram  
dynamic ram stores the data in the form of capacitance and static ram stores the data in voltages
define bestfirst search 
bestfirst search is a search algorithm which explores a graph by expanding the most promising node chosen according to a specified rule
Explain the positioning time for a disk.
It is also called as the random access time used by a disk to perform operations.It consists of time to move the disk arm to the desired cylinder called the seek time. The time required for the desired sector to rotate to the disk head is called rotational latency.Typical disks can transfer megabytes of data per second.Seek time and rotational latency is always in milliseconds.
what do you mean by the difference between logical address space and physical address space
logical address space specifies the address that is generated by cpu on the other hand physical address space specifies the address that is seen by the memory unit
What is point in polygon algorithms 
find the nearest point or points to a query point
what do you mean by a address register
address registers  contain main memory addresses of data and instructions or they contain a portion of the address that is used in the calculation of the complete addresses
how do you explain a directed graph
a graph in which every edge is directed is called a directed graph
What Do You Mean By Hash Table?							
The hash table data structure is merely an array of some fixed size	 containing the keys. A key is a string with an associated value. Each key is mapped into some number in the range 0 to tablesize-1 and placed in the appropriate cell.						
what do you mean by sss
state space search traversing a game tree in a bestfirst fashion similar to that of the a search algorithm
what do you mean by priority queue
priority queue is an abstract data type which is like a regular queue or stack data structure but where additionally each element has a priority associated with it
define an algorithm
an algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems
define a internal node
nternal node an intermediate node between the root and the leaf nodes is called an internal node it is also referred to as a non terminal node in preceding figure nodes 736 and 9 are internal nodes
List The Applications Of Stacks?							
Towers of Hanoi	Reversing a stringBalanced parenthesis,Recursion using stack	Evaluation of arithmetic expressions							
What is worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm?							
O(1) auxiliary.							
how do you explain the zombie process
a zombie process is a process which has completed and in the terminated state but has its entry in the process table it shows that the resources are held by the process and are not free
how do you explain knuthbendix completion algorithm
for rewriting rule system 
what do you mean by iterative deepening depthfirst search
a state space search strategy
What is Monolithic Kernel:
It can be considered as a whole kernel that is a full-fledged kernel, which provides all the services are running.Example: UNIX
define brents algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations using only two iterators
what do you mean by oddeven sort
a relatively simple sorting algorithm developed originally for use on parallel processors with local interconnections 
how do you explain convex hull
the convex hull or convex envelope or convex closure of a set x of points in the euclidean plane or in a euclidean space or more generally in an affine space over the reals is the smallest convex set that contains x
Draw the structure of a linked list.							
first part represent data and second part represent address of next node							
Why dynamic programming is not for complex problems 
When subproblems are independent and there is no repetition, memoization does not help; hence dynamic programming is not a solution for all complex problems
what do you mean by demand paging
demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the ram then the os brings the missingand required pages from the disk into the ram
How do you define hashing?							
Hashing is the method of finding and retrieving information associated with a unique identifying key.							
The copying garbage collector can be implemented using semispaces by splitting the heap into two halves. Each half is a contiguous memory region. All the allocations are made from a single half of the heap only. When the specified heap is half full, the collector is immediately invoked and it copies the live objects into the other half of the heap. In this way, the first half of the heap then only contains garbage and eventually is overwritten in the next pass.
How does reference counting manage memory allocated objects? When can it fail to reclaim objects?
What is cascading termination?
If one process is terminated, its related processes are also terminated abnormally then it is called cascade termination.It occurs in the case of parent child process.If the parent process is terminated normally or abnormally then all its child processes must be terminated.The parent is existing and the operating system does not allow a child to continue if its parent terminates.This child process is the new process created by the process called the parent process.
how do you explain booths multiplication algorithm 
booths multiplication algorithm is a multiplication algorithm that multiplies two signed binary numbers in twos complement notation 
No we cannot apply binary search algorithm to a sorted linked list.since there is no way of indexing the middle element in the list. This is the drawback in using linked list as a data structure.						
What Do You Mean By Free Pool?							
How does swapping result in better memory management?
During regular intervals that are set by the operating system, processes can be copied from main memory to a backing store, and then copied back later. Swapping allows more operations to be run that can fit into memory at one time.
What are the activities related to the Time Shared User Program Management?
An Operating System is responsible for the creation and deletion of both user and system processes.It also provides mechanism for the process synchronization.Suspending and resuming of windows is done by the operating system itself.Program needs resources like CPU time, memory, files, input output devices to complete the task which is provided by the operating system. Mechanisms are also provided for deadlock handling.
What is a data register?
Data registers  can be assigned to a variety of functions by the programmer. They can be used with any machine instruction that performs operations on data.
how do you explain a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization in general a thread is composed of a thread id program counter register set and the stack
What is chews second algorithm 
create quality constrained Delaunay triangulations
what do you mean by fordfulkerson algorithm 
computes the maximum flow in a graph
what do you mean by lagrange interpolation 
interpolation using lagrange polynomials
What is zhu takaoka string matching algorithms 
searches multiple patterns efficiently
how do you explain gilbertjohnsonkeerthi distance algorithm 
determining the smallest distance between two convex shapes
What main properties are considered in bubble sort?							
Stable	O(1) extra space	O(n2) comparisons and swaps	Adaptive: O(n) when nearly sorted							
how do you explain a address register
address registers  contain main memory addresses of data and instructions or they contain a portion of the address that is used in the calculation of the complete addresses
What Is Meant By Binary Tree Traversal?								
Traversing a binary tree means moving through all the nodes in the binary tree visiting each node in the tree only once.				
In linked list each element in list contains a field called a link or pointer which contains the address of the next element.Successive elements need not occupy adjacent space in memory.							
We Apply Binary Search Algorithm To A Sorted Linked List.Why?						
define index calculus algorithm 
the index calculus algorithm is a probabilistic algorithm for computing discrete logarithms
What is todd-coxeter algorithm
Procedure for generating cosets.
What is RAID ?
This is the basic OS Interview Questions which is asked in an interview. RAID stands for Redundant Array of Independent Disks. To improve overall performance the data is stored redundantly and used whenever required.
What Is A Loop?							
An edge of a graph which connects to itself is called a loop or sling.							
what do you mean by context switching 
it is the process of switching the cpu from one process to anotherthis requires to save the state of the old process and loading the saved state for the new processthe context of the process is represented in the process control blockduring switching the system does no useful workhow the address space is preserved and what amount of work is needed depends on the memory management
what do you mean by a internal node
nternal node an intermediate node between the root and the leaf nodes is called an internal node it is also referred to as a non terminal node in preceding figure nodes 736 and 9 are internal nodes
what do you mean by the need of device status table
this table gives the device type its address and statusit is required to keep a track of many input output requests at the same timethe state of the device can be functioning idle or busyif a device is busy type of request and other parameters are stored in the table entry if more than one processor issues request for the same device then a wait queue is maintained
how do you explain plumbing  piping
it is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another for example instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen it can be piped and sent to a file or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy
what do you mean by edmondsedmondskara algorithm
implementation of fordfulkerson
define jump search
linear search on a smaller subset of the sequence
what do you mean by postman sort 
variant of bucket sort which takes advantage of hierarchical structure
what do you mean by heaps permutation generation algorithm 
interchange elements to generate next permutation
what do you mean by cocktail shaker sort 
a bubble sort traversing the list alternately from front to back and back to front 
How does dynamic programming work 
dynamic programming avoids recomputing solutions that have already been computed.
define impact of signed numbers on the memory
sign of the number is the first bit of the storage allocated for that number so you get one bit less for storing the number for example if you are storing an 8bit number without sign the range is 0255 if you decide to store sign you get 7 bits for the number plus one bit for the sign so the range is 128 to 127
how do you explain euclidean distance transform
computes the distance between every point in a grid and a discrete collection of points
how do you explain an algorithm
an algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems
define monolithic kernel
a monolithic kernel is a kernel which includes all operating system code is in single executable image
how do you explain rounding functions
the principal nth root of a positive real number a is the positive real solution of the equation
define birkhoff interpolation 
an extension of polynomial interpolation
what do you mean by strongly connected components
in the mathematical theory of directed graphs a graph is said to be strongly connected or diconnected if every vertex is reachable from every other vertex
how do you explain the difference between null and void pointer
null can be value for pointer type variablesvoid is a type identifier which has not sizenull and void are not same example void ptr  null
Does The Minimal Spanning Tree Of A Graph Give The Shortest Distance Between Any 2 Specified Nodes?							
No! Minimal spanning tree assures that the total weight of the tree is kept at its minimum. But it doesnt mean that the distance between any two nodes involved in the minimal-spanning tree is minimum.							
how do you explain user program
the instructions to be executed
define synchronization what are the different synchronization mechanisms
synchronization means controlling access to a resource that is available to two or more threads or process different synchronization mechanisms are mutexsemaphoresmonitorscondition variables critical regions and read write locks
define process migration
it is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine
define the worst case space complexity of selection sort
the worst case space complexity of selection sort is on total o1 auxiliary
how do you explain a weighted graph
a graph in which weights are assigned to every edge is called a weighted graph
how do you explain online algorithm 
an online algorithm is one that can process its input piecebypiece in a serial fashion ie in the order that the input is fed to the algorithm without having the entire input available from the beginning
define the difference between null and void pointer
null can be value for pointer type variablesvoid is a type identifier which has not sizenull and void are not same example void ptr  null
What is linear search 
finds an item in an unsorted sequence
What are the functions of operating system?
The operating system controls and coordinates the use of hardware among the different processes and applications. It provides the various functionalities to the users. The following are the main job of operating system.Resource utilization,Resource allocation,Process management, Memory management,File management,I/O management,Device management
how do you explain busy waiting
the repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busywaiting the cpu is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period and the process does not progress toward completion
how do you explain polynomial long division
an algorithm for dividing a polynomial by another polynomial of the same or lower degree 
Calculate The Efficiency Of Sequential Search?														
Number of comparisons in any case is O (n).							
how do you explain newtonraphson division
an algorithm used for the fast computation of large integer powers of a number
When does the condition 'rendezvous' arise?
In message passing, it is the condition in which, both, the sender and receiver are blocked until the message is delivered.
define introselect 
introselect short for introspective selection is a selection algorithm that is a hybrid of quickselect and median of medians which has fast average performance and optimal worstcase
What Is A Linked List?							
A linked list is a linear collection of data elements	 called nodes	 where the linear order is given by pointers. Each node has two parts first part contain the information of the element second part contains the address of the next node in the list.					
how do you explain kirkpatrickseidel algorithm 
is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a set of points in the plane
What Are The Major Data Structures Used In The Following Areas  Rdbms	Network Data Model & Hierarchical Data Model?						
RDBMS Array (i.e. Array of structures)	,Network data model Graph,Hierarchical data model Trees.							
Define A Priority Queue?			
Priority queue is a collection of elements	 each containing a key referred as the priority for that element. Elements can be inserted in any order (i.e.	 of alternating priority)	 but are arranged in order of their priority value in the queue. The elements are deleted from the queue in the order of their priority (i.e.	 the elements with the highest priority is deleted first). The elements with the same priority are given equal importance and processed accordingly.					
define fibonacci search technique 
search a sorted sequence using a divide and conquer algorithm that narrows down possible locations with the aid of fibonacci numbers
Write algorithm for inserting node at the beginning of Singly-Linked list	 if list is not empty .						
To insert a node at the beginning of the linked list algorithm is:	Allocate memory for the new node.Assign value to the data field of the new node.	
What is quick sort algorithm 
Quicksort (sometimes called partition-exchange sort) is an O(N log N) efficient sorting algorithm, serving as a systematic method for placing the elements of an array in order.
How does the representation of a node in a doubly-linked list differ from that in a singly-linked list?							
Unlike singly-linked list	 in which each node stores the address of only the next node in the list	 each node in a doubly-linked list holds the address of its previous node also.					
What is lexicographic breadth search
a linear time algorithm for ordering the vertices of a graph
define memorymanagement unit mmu
hardware device that maps virtual to physical address in mmu scheme the value in the relocation register is added to every address generated by a user process at the time it is sent to memorythe user program deals with logical addresses it never sees the real physical addresses
What is fragmentation?
Fragmentation is memory wasted. It can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixed-sized allocation units, or external if we are dealing with systems that have variable-sized allocation units.
What Do You Mean By Open Addressing?							
Open addressing is a collision resolving strategy in which	 if collision occurs alternative cells are tried until an empty cell is found. The cells h0(x)	 h1(x)	 h2(x)	. are tried in succession	 where hi(x)=(Hash(x)+F(i))mod Tablesize with F(0)=0. The function F is the collision resolution strategy.		
Explain how will to you make Euclids logic successful.
For Euclid's method to succeed, the starting lengths must satisfy two requirements: (i) the lengths must not be zero, AND (ii) the subtraction must be proper; i.e., a test must guarantee that the smaller of the two numbers is subtracted from the larger (alternately, the two can be equal so their subtraction yields zero).
what do you mean by cycle sort 
inplace with theoretically optimal number of writes
what do you mean by the advantage of a multiprocessor system
as many as processors are increased you will get the considerable increment in throughput it is cost effective also because they can share resources so the overall reliability increases 
define the best case performance of selection sort
the best case performance of selection sort is on2
define chans algorithm 
is an optimal outputsensitive algorithm to compute the convex hull of a set points in 2 or 3dimensional space
define decrease and conquer algorithms
a simpler variant of divide and conquer is called a decrease and conquer algorithm that solves an identical subproblem and uses the solution of this subproblem to solve the bigger problem 
define laplacian smoothing
an algorithm to smooth a polygonal mesh
what do you mean by maxcliquedyn maximum clique algorithm 
the maxcliquedyn algorithm is an algorithm for finding a maximum clique in an undirected graph 
how do you explain virtual memory
virtual memory is a very useful memory management technique which enables processes to execute outside of memory this technique is especially used when an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory 
what does ADT consists of two parts							
Values definition,Operation definitionExample-The value definition for the ADT RATIONAL states that RATIONAL value consists of two integers	 second doesnt equal to zero.						The operator definition for ADT RATIONAL includes the operation of creation (make rational) addition	 multiplication and test for equality.						
what do you mean by the average case performance of selection sort
the average case performance of selection sort is on2
What is the best case efficiency of binary search?							
The best case efficiency of binary search is O(1).							
what do you mean by a binary semaphore
binary semaphore takes only 0 and 1 as value and used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes 
define tree search 
tree traversal also known as tree search is a form of graph traversal and refers to the process of visiting checking andor updating each node in a tree data structure exactly once
what do you mean by fcfs
fcfs stands for first come first served it is a type of scheduling algorithm in this scheme if a process requests the cpu first it is allocated to the cpu first its implementation is managed by a fifo queue
how do you explain dualmode operation
in order to protect the operating systems and the system programs from the malfunctioning programs the two mode operations were evolvedsystem mode and user mode
what do you mean by a folder in ubuntu 
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything including your hardware is a file
how do you explain deadlock explain
deadlock is a specific situation or condition where two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start but this situation causes hang for both of them
What is longest common subsequence problem
Find the longest subsequence common to all sequences in a set of sequences
What is simplex algorithm 
the simplex algorithm operates on linear programs in the canonical form
what do you mean by the best page size when designing an operating system
the best paging size varies from system to system so there is no single best when it comes to page size there are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size such as page table paging time and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system
what do you mean by rr scheduling algorithm
rr roundrobin scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for timesharing systems a circular queue is a setup in such a way that the cpu scheduler goes around that queue allocating cpu to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds
What is page cannibalizing?
Page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing.
how do you explain minimum bounding box algorithm 
find the oriented minimum bounding box enclosing a set of points
what do you mean by preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling
preemptive scheduling the preemptive scheduling is prioritized the highest priority process should always be the process that is currently utilizednonpreemptive scheduling when a process enters the state of running the state of that process is not deleted from the scheduler until it finishes its service time
What is divide and conquer algorithm
A divide and conquer algorithm repeatedly reduces an instance of a problem to one or more smaller instances of the same problem (usually recursively) until the instances are small enough to solve easily.
how do you explain boyer moore hors pool algorithm 
simplification of boyermoore 
define alpha max plus beta min algorithm 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
Why partitioning and formatting is a prerequisite to installing an operating system?
Partitioning and formatting create a preparatory environment on the drive so that the operating system can be copied and installed properly. This includes allocating space on the drive, designating a drive name, determining and creating the appropriate file system and structure.
what do you mean by an acyclic graph
a simple diagram which does not have any cycles is called an acyclic graph
what do you mean by path based strong component algorithm 
in graph theory the strongly connected components of a directed graph may be found using an algorithm that uses depthfirst search in combination with two stacks one to keep track of the vertices in the current component and the second to keep track of the current search path
define dedicated processor assignment
provides implicit scheduling defined by assignment of threads to processors for the duration of program execution each program is allocated a set of processors equal in number to the number of threads in the program processors are chosen from the available pool
What are the problems in the bubble sort?							
The bubble sort have Turtles and rabbits problem. Because big elements (rabbits) go up fast	 while small ones (turtles) go down very slow.						
Do bubble sort and selection sort have quadratic order of growth?							
Yes	 bubble sort and selection sort have quadratic order of growth.						
what do you mean by a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization it consists of a thread id program counter register set and a stack 
What is introselect 
Introselect (short for "introspective selection") is a selection algorithm that is a hybrid of quickselect and median of medians which has fast average performance and optimal worst-case
What is path based strong component algorithm 
In graph theory, the strongly connected components of a directed graph may be found using an algorithm that uses depth-first search in combination with two stacks, one to keep track of the vertices in the current component and the second to keep track of the current search path
Which are the two principle criteria for selecting a hash function?							
Two principle criteria for selecting a hash function are:		It should be easy and quick to compute.	It should achieve a uniform distribution of keys in address space.							
what do you mean by thrashing
it is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages rather than executing instructions this is due to an inordinate number of page faults
How does divide and conquer work
Divide and conquer divides the problem into multiple subproblems and so the conquer stage is more complex than decrease and conquer algorithms.
What is postman sort 
variant of Bucket sort which takes advantage of hierarchical structure
what do you mean by longest common substring problem
find the longest string or strings that is a substring or are substrings of two or more strings
define a process
a program in execution is called a processprocesses are of two types are operating system processes and user processes
How many comparisons are performed in the second pass of the selection sort algorithm?							
n-2 comparisons are performed in the second pass of the selection sort algorithm.							
What is NYSIIS
phonetic algorithm, improves on Soundex
In RDBMS what is the efficient data structure used in the internal storage representation?
B+ tree. Because in B+ tree	 all the data is stored only in leaf nodes	 that makes searching easier. This corresponds to the records that shall be stored in leaf nodes 				
Why It Is Said That Searching A Node In A Binary Search Tree Is Efficient Than That Of A Simple Binary Tree?										
In binary search tree	 the nodes are arranged in such a way that the left node is having less data value than root node value and the right nodes are having larger value than that of root. Because of this while searching any node the value of the target node will be compared with the parent node and accordingly either left sub branch or right sub branch will be searched. So	 one has to compare only particular branches. Thus searching becomes efficient.						
State The Difference Between Primitive And Non-primitive Data Types?							
Primitive data types are the fundamental data types. Eg) int	 float	 double	 char Non-primitive data types are user defined data types. Eg) Structure	 Union and enumerated data types.			
define cliques 
a clique klik or klk is a subset of vertices of an undirected graph such that every two distinct vertices in the clique are adjacent that is its induced subgraph is complete
how do you explain pancake sorting 
pancake sorting is the colloquial term for the mathematical problem of sorting a disordered stack of pancakes in order of size when a spatula can be inserted at any point in the stack and used to flip all pancakes above it
how do you explain pollards rho algorithm 
it uses only a small amount of space and its expected running time is proportional to the square root of the size of the smallest prime factor of the composite number being factorized
what do you mean by chudnovsky algorithm 
a fast method for calculating the digits of p
define nysiis
phonetic algorithm improves on soundex
What is the difference between micro kernel and macro kernel?
Micro kernel: micro kernel is the kernel which runs minimal performance affecting services for operating system. In micro kernel operating system all other operations are performed by processor.,Macro Kernel: Macro Kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel.
What are the stipulations of C2 level security?
C2 level security provides for Discretionary Access Control,Identification and Authentication,Auditing,Resource reuse.
What is SCSI?
SCSI - Small computer systems interface is a type of interface used for computer components such as hard drives, optical drives, scanners and tape drives. It is a competing technology to standard IDE (Integrated Drive Electronics).
What are different types of linked list?							
Singly-linked list	 Doubly-linked list and Circular linked list						
define the basic function of paging
paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physical address space of a process to be noncontiguous it avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store
how do you explain boyer moore string search algorithm 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
While implementing the bubble sort algorithm	 how many comparisons will performed in Pass 1?						
n - 1 comparisons.							
What is a drawback of MVT?
They are  theability to support multiple processors,virtual storage,source level debugging.
how do you explain a folder in ubuntu 
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything including your hardware is a file
what do you mean by nearest neighbour search
the arbitrarily oriented minimum bounding box is the minimum bounding box calculated subject to no constraints as to the orientation of the result
How is an algorithm is designed 
Problem definition,Development of a model,Specification of the algorithm,Designing an algorithm,Checking the correctness of the algorithm,Analysis of algorithm,Implementation of algorithm,Program testing,Documentation preparation
Explain the different kinds of a kernel.
Monolithic Kernel, MicroKernel, Hybrid Kernel.
what do you mean by sequence algorithms 
a sequence algorithm is an algorithm 12 that takes one or more linear sequences as inputs
What are the different operating systems?
Batched operating systems,Multi-programmed operating systems,timesharing operating systems, Distributed operating systems, Real-time operating systems
define bead sort 
the bead sort operation can be compared to the manner in which beads slide on parallel poles such as on an abacus
What are local and global page replacements?  
Local replacement means that an incoming page is brought in only to the relevant process' address space. Global replacement policy allows any page frame from any process to be replaced. The latter is applicable to variable partitions model only.
how do you explain the worst case performance of binary search
the worst case performance of binary search is olog n
What is bkm algorithm 
for computing a number's multiplicative inverse (reciprocal).
define binary search algorithm 
locates an item in a sorted sequence
define backward euler method 
in numerical analysis and scientific computing the backward euler method or implicit euler method is one of the most basic numerical methods for the solution of ordinary differential equations
define a long term scheduler  short term schedulers
long term schedulers are the job schedulers that select processes from the job queue and load them into memory for execution the short term schedulers are the cpu schedulers that select a process from the ready queue and allocate the cpu to one of them
Give an example of Turtle problem in bubble sort.							
Though	 array {2	3	4	5	 1} is almost sorted	 it takes O(n2) iterations to sort an array. Element {1} is a turtle. 	
what do you mean by the difference between a stack and an array
stack is a ordered collection of itemsstack is a dynamic object whose size is constantly changing as items are pushed and poppedstack may contain different data typesstack is declared as a structure containing an array to hold the element of the stack and an integer to indicate the current stack top within the array array is an ordered collection of itemsarray is a static object ie no of item is fixed and is assigned by the declaration of the arrayit contains same data typesarray can be home of a stack ie array can be declared large enough for maximum size of the stack
what do you mean by subtree
subtree a portion of a tree which can be viewed as tree in itselfis called subtree in preceding figure the tree starting at node 7 containing nodes 2 and 6a subtree can also contain just one node called the leaf node
what do you mean by sample sort
samplesort is a sorting algorithm that is a divide and conquer algorithm often used in parallel processing systems
how do you explain the need of device status table
this table gives the device type its address and statusit is required to keep a track of many input output requests at the same timethe state of the device can be functioning idle or busyif a device is busy type of request and other parameters are stored in the table entry if more than one processor issues request for the same device then a wait queue is maintained
define a drawback of mvt
it does not have the features like ability to support multiple processorsvirtual storagesource level debuggingwhen the os at the explicit request of another process creates a process this action is called process spawning
What is predictive search 
binary-like search which factors in magnitude of search term versus the high and low values in the search. Sometimes called dictionary search or interpolated search.
how do you explain brute force search
an exhaustive and reliable search method but computationally inefficient in many applications
what do you mean by dijkstras algorithm
dijkstras algorithm is an algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph which may represent
what do you mean by simplex algorithm 
the simplex algorithm operates on linear programs in the canonical form
what do you mean by fuzzy algorithm 
fuzzy logic is an approach to computing based on degrees of truth rather than the usual true or false
What is the difference between internal commands and external commands?
Internal commands are the built-in part of the operating system while external commands are the separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory. 
Explain the layers of a Windows XP system.
A situation of operating system portability is created by the hardware abstraction layer by hiding hardware differences from the operating systems upper layers. A virtual machine interface is provided by the hardware abstraction layer to be used by the kernel dispatcher and the device drivers.The foundation provided by the kernel layer is used by the executive functions and the user mode sub systems. The kernel would always remain in memory and cannot be preempted. The functions of the kernel are thread scheduling, interrupt and exception handling etc. The executive layer is responsible for providing services to be used by all subsystems. These can be object manager, process manager, i/o manager etc.
how do you explain context switching 
it is the process of switching the cpu from one process to anotherthis requires to save the state of the old process and loading the saved state for the new processthe context of the process is represented in the process control blockduring switching the system does no useful workhow the address space is preserved and what amount of work is needed depends on the memory management
what do you mean by modular square root 
computing square roots modulo a prime number
What are the main functions of a Kernel?
The main functions of a Kernel are Process management,Device management,Memory management,Interrupt handling,I/O communication and File system management
define the translation lookaside buffer tlb
in a cached system the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the tlb that aids in faster lookup tlb contains those pagetable entries that have been most recently used normally each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses one to fetch appropriate pagetable entry and one to fetch the desired data using tlb 
what do you mean by process control block pcb
info needed by the os to control processes
What is a device queue?
A list of processes waiting for a particular I/O device is called device queue.
What Are The Disadvantages Array Implementations Of Linked List?							
The no of nodes needed cant be predicted when the program is written.The no of nodes declared must remain allocated throughout its execution.							
how do you explain sorting algorithm 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order
Explain the execution cycle for a von Neumann architecture.
Initially the system will fetch the instruction and stores it in instruction register.Instruction is then decoded and may cause operands to be fetched from memory.After execution the result is stored in the memory.Here the memory unit sees only the memory addresses irrespective of how they are generated.Memory unit is also unaware of what addresses are for.
Main memory is also called random access memory (RAM). CPU can access Main memory directly. Data access from main memory is much faster than Secondary memory. It is implemented in a semiconductor technology, called dynamic random-access memory (DRAM).
Main memory is usually too small to store all needed programs. It is a volatile storage device that loses its contents when power is turned off. Secondary memory can stores large amount of data and programs permanently. Magnetic disk is the most common secondary storage device. If a user wants to execute any program it should come from secondary memory to main memory because CPU can access main memory directly.
what do you mean by brute force 
this is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best
When is a system in safe state?
The set of dispatchable processes is in a safe state if there exists at least one temporal order in which all processes can be run .
Why Do We Use A Multidimensional Array?							
A multidimensional array can be useful to organize subgroups of data within an array. In addition to organizing data stored in elements of an array	 a multidimensional array can store memory addresses of data in a pointer array and an array of pointers.Multidimensional arrays are used to store information in a matrix form.	e.g; a railway timetable	 schedule cannot be stored as a single dimensional array. One can use a 3-D array for storing height	 width and length of each room on each floor of a building.					
how do you explain meant by binary tree traversal
traversing a binary tree means moving through all the nodes in the binary tree visiting each node in the tree only once
What is Load Sharing
Processes are not assigned to a particular processor. A global queue of threads is maintained. Each processor, when idle, selects a thread from this queue. Note that load balancing refers to a scheme where work is allocated to processors on a more permanent basis.
what do you mean by worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm
worst case  on2 and average case  on2
what do you mean by preemptive multitasking
preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs this in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes
What are the various application fields where binary search trees are used?							
Some of them are as follows: Indexing	Encoding messages using Huffman treeArithmetic expression evaluationSorting data by using Heap tree							
What Are The Advantages Of Linked List Over Array (static Data Structure)?							
The disadvantages of array are unlike linked list it is expensive to insert and delete elements in the array.One cant double or triple the size of array as it occupies block of memory space.							
what do you mean by christofides algorithm
the christofides algorithm is an algorithm for finding approximate solutions to the travelling salesman problem
What is bogosort 
It is a highly ineffective sorting algorithm based on the generate and test paradigm. The function successively generates permutations of its input until it finds one that is sorted. It is not useful for sorting, but may be used for educational purposes, to contrast it with more efficient algorithms.
define linear programming 
when searching for optimal solutions to a linear function bound to linear equality and inequality constraints the constraints of the problem can be used directly in producing the optimal solutions
how do you explain subtree
subtree a portion of a tree which can be viewed as tree in itselfis called subtree in preceding figure the tree starting at node 7 containing nodes 2 and 6a subtree can also contain just one node called the leaf node
define the use of paging in operating system
paging is used to solve the external fragmentation problem in operating system this technique ensures that the data you need is available as quickly as possible 
how do you explain a binary semaphore
binary semaphore takes only 0 and 1 as value and used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes 
what do you mean by kernel
a kernel is the core of every operating system it connects applications to the actual processing of data it also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability
what do you mean by a critical section
it is a section of code which can be executed only by one process at a time
how do you explain a cycle or a circuit
a path which originates and ends in the same node is called a cycle or circuit
Define B-tree Of Order M?							
A B-tree of order M is a tree that is not binary with the following structural propertiesThe root is either a leaf or has between 2 and M children.						All non-leaf nodes (except the root) have between [M/2] and M children.							All leaves are at the same depth.				
define the difference between process and program
a program while running or executing is known as a process 
What is a semaphore?
A semaphore is a hardware or a software tag variable whose value indicates the status of a common resource. Its purpose is to lock the common resource being used. A process which needs the resource will check the semaphore to determine the status of the resource followed by the decision for proceeding. In multitasking operating systems, the activities are synchronized by using the semaphore techniques.
what do you mean by counting sort 
counting sort is an algorithm for sorting a collection of objects according to keys that are small integers that is it is an integer sorting algorithm
what do you mean by nos
nos is short for network operating system it is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network including filefolder sharing
What is insertion sort 
determine where the current item belongs in the list of sorted ones, and insert it there
what do you mean by a spanning tree 
a spanning tree is a tree associated with a network all the nodes of the graph appear on the tree once a minimum spanning tree is a spanning tree organized so that the total edge weight between nodes is minimized 
What Do You Mean By Primary Clustering?							
In linear probing collision resolution strategy	 even if the table is relatively empty	 blocks of occupied cells start forming. This effect is known as primary clustering means that any key hashes into the cluster will require several attempts to resolve the collision and then it will add to the cluster.					
how do you explain state space search 
state space search is a process used in the field of computer science including artificial intelligence ai in which successive configurations or states of an instance are considered with the intention of finding a goal state with a desired property
What Do You Mean By Recursive Definition?							
The definition which defines an object in terms of simpler cases of itself is called recursive definition.							
what do you mean by euclidean distance transform
computes the distance between every point in a grid and a discrete collection of points
define hirschberhs algorithm
finds the least cost sequence alignment between two sequences as measured by their levenshtein distance
What is primss algorithm 
Prim's (also known as Jarnk's) algorithm is a greedy algorithm that finds a minimum spanning tree for a weighted undirected graph.
how do you explain fragmentation
fragmentation is memory wasted it can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixedsized allocation units or external if we are dealing with systems that have variablesized allocation units
What Actions Are Performed When A Function Is Called?							
When a function is called arguments are passed.local variables are allocated and initialized.transferring control to the function.							
define galegaleshapely algorithm
solves the stable marriage problem
how do you explain uniform costsearch 
a tree search that finds the lowestcost route where costs vary
How do we define bubble sort?							
Bubble sort repeatedly scan the list	 comparing adjacent elements swapping them if they are in wrong order. 						
define best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
the best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is on
how do you explain continuous algorithms 
an algorithm operating on data that represents continuous quantities even though this data is represented by discrete approximationssuch algorithms are studied in numerical analysis or
what do you mean by the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 queens problem
backtracking
In which traversal method	 the root is processed before traversing the left and right subtrees.						
In Preorder traversal method	 the root is processed before traversing the left and right sub-trees.						
how do you explain comparison sort
a comparison sort is a type of sorting algorithm that only reads the list elements through a single abstract comparison operation often a less than or equal to operator or a threeway comparison that determines which of two elements should occur first in the final sorted list 
define the worst case performance of selection sort
the worst case performance of selection sort is on2
what do you mean by the logical address space
logical address specifies the address which is generated by the cpu whereas physical address specifies to the address which is seen by the memory unit
how do you explain cubic interpolation 
in numerical analysis a cubic hermite spline or cubic hermite interpolator is a spline where each piece is a thirddegree polynomial specified in hermite form1 that is by its values and first derivatives at the end points of the corresponding domain interval
Tell us something about Mutex.
Mutex - Mutual Exclusion Lock is a lock which protects access to shared data resource.Threads can create and initialize a mutex to be used later. Before entering a critical region the mutex is locked. It is unlocked after exiting the critical region. If any thread tries to lock the mutex during this time, it can't do so.
define thrashing
it is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages rather than executing instructions this is due to an inordinate number of page faults
what do you mean by exponential time
exponential time if the time is an exponential function of the input size eg bruteforce search
define burst sort 
build a compact cache efficient burst trie and then traverse it to create sorted output
how do you explain baileyborwein plouffe formula
a spigot algorithm for the computation of the nth binary digit of p
Is Any Implicit Arguments Are Passed To A Function When It Is Called?							
Yes there is a set of implicit arguments that contain information necessary for the function to execute and return correctly. One of them is return address which is stored within the functions data area	 at the time of returning to calling program the address is retrieved and the function branches to that location.						
how do you explain a undirected graph
a graph in which every edge is undirected is called a directed graph
Why Is The Isempty() Member Method Called?							
The isEmpty() member method is called within the dequeue process to determine if there is an item in the queue to be removed i.e. isEmpty() is called to decide whether the queue has at least one element. This method is called by the dequeue() method before returning the front element.							
Why is heuristic algorithms used 
heuristic algorithms can be used to find a solution close to the optimal solution in cases where finding the optimal solution is impractical.
What Are The Different Binary Tree Traversal Techniques?							
Preorder traversal.Inorder traversal.Postorder traversal.Levelorder traversal.							
how do you explain traveling salesman problem 
given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities what is the shortest possible route that visits each city and returns to the origin city
What is quick hull
Quickhull is a method of computing the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane.
define cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
what do you mean by the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
what do you mean by bentleyottmann algorithm 
the bentleyottmann algorithm is a sweep line algorithm for listing all crossings in a set of line segments
what do you mean by brents algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations using only two iterators
how do you explain cantorzassenhaus algorithm 
factor polynomials over finite fields
What is the function of Turnaround Time:
This is considered to be the time elapsed from when a process is submitted to when it has completed.
how do you explain thrashing
thrashing is a phenomenon in virtual memory scheme when the processor spends most of its time in swapping pages rather than executing instructions 
What are the basic functions of an operating system?
Operating system controls and coordinates the use of the hardware among the various applications programs for various uses. Operating system acts as resource allocator and manager. Also operating system is control program which controls the user programs to prevent errors and improper use of the computer. It is especially concerned with the operation and control of I/O devices.
how do you explain root partition
root partition is where the operating system kernel is located it also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time
what do you mean by process spawning
when the os at the explicit request of another process creates a process this action is called process spawning
what do you mean by the main use of dynamic programming
dynamic programming reduces the exponential nature of many problems to polynomial complexity
State The Merits Of Linear Representation Of Binary Trees?								
Storage method is easy and can be easily implemented in arrays.When the location of a parent/child node is known	 other one can be determined easily.It requires static memory allocation so it is easily implemented in all programming language.							
define the use of threaded binary tree
in threaded binary tree the null pointers are replaced by some addresses the left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor
Explain Belady's Anomaly?
Also called FIFO anomaly. Usually, on increasing the number of frames allocated to a process virtual memory, the process execution is faster, because fewer page faults occur. Sometimes, the reverse happens, i.e., the execution time increases even when more frames are allocated to the process. This is Belady's Anomaly. This is true for certain page reference patterns.
What is euclidean minimum spanning tree 
algorithms for computing the minimum spanning tree of a set of points in the plane
What is a critical section?
It is a section of code which can be executed only by one process at a time.
what do you mean by sequential search
in sequential search each item in the array is compared with the item being searched until a match occurs it is applicable to a table organized either as an array or as a linked list
An equivalence relation is a relation R that satisfies three properties	(Reflexive) aRa	 for all a ? S.	(Symmetric) aRb if and only if bRa.(Transitive) aRb and bRc implies that aRc.		Define A Relation?													
A relation R is defined on a set S if for every pair of elements (a	b)	 a	b ? S	 aRb is either true or false. If aRb is true	 then we say that a is related to b.		
define the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
how do you explain semaphore
semaphore is a protected variable or abstract data type that is used to lock the resource being used the value of the semaphore indicates the status of a common resource
What Do You Mean By Tree Edge?							
If w is undiscovered at the time vw is explored	 then vw is called a tree edge and v becomes the parent of w.						
what is counting sort 
counting sort is an algorithm for sorting a collection of objects according to keys that are small integers; that is, it is an integer sorting algorithm.
how do you explain short term scheduler 
short term scheduler also know as a dispatcher executes most frequently and makes the finestgrained decision of which process should execute next this scheduler is invoked whenever an event occurs it may lead to interruption of one process by preemption
what do you mean by smp
to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used in essence with smp any process or threads can be assigned to any processor
what do you mean by quick sort algorithm 
quicksort sometimes called partitionexchange sort is an on log n efficient sorting algorithm serving as a systematic method for placing the elements of an array in order
what do you mean by fragmentation tell about different types of fragmentation
when many of free blocks are too small to satisfy any request then fragmentation occurs external fragmentation and internal fragmentation are two types of fragmentation external fragmentation happens when a dynamic memory allocation algorithm allocates some memory and a small piece is left over that cannot be effectively used  internal fragmentation is the space wasted inside of allocated memory blocks because of restriction on the allowed sizes of allocated blocks
Name the functions constituting the OS's memory management.
Memory allocation and de-allocation, Integrity maintenance,Swapping and Virtual memory
What is brute force search
An exhaustive and reliable search method, but computationally inefficient in many applications.
Throw some light on Internal Process Memory.
This memory consists of a set of high-speed registers. They work as temporary storage for instructions and data.
State The Difference Between Arrays And Linked List?
in array the number of nodes need to be mentioned where as in case of linked list it is not necessory.					
define ukkonens algorithms
a lineartime online algorithm for constructing suffix trees
When does page fault error occur?
It occurs when a page that has not been brought into main memory is accessed.
how do you explain sample sort
samplesort is a sorting algorithm that is a divide and conquer algorithm often used in parallel processing systems
What is worst case efficiency of linear search?							
The best case efficiency of linear search is O(n).							
What Is An Assembler?
An assembler acts as a translator for low level language. Assembly codes, written using mnemonic commands are translated by the Assembler into machine language.
What is odd-even sort
a relatively simple sorting algorithm, developed originally for use on parallel processors with local interconnections. 
how do you explain graceful degradation
it is the ability to continue providing service proportional to level of hardwaresystems designed for graceful degradation are called fault tolerantif we have several processors connected together then failure of one would not stop the systemthen the entire system runs only 10 slowerthis leads to increased reliability of the system
What is starvation in Operating System?
Starvation is Resource management problem. In this problem, a waiting process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processes.
Explain Booting the system and Bootstrap program in operating system.
The procedure of starting a computer by loading the kernel is known as booting the system.
how do you explain laplacian smoothing
an algorithm to smooth a polygonal mesh
Explain IPC.
It is called as the inter process communication. The scheme requires that processes share a common buffer pool and code for implementing the buffer.It allows processes to communicate and to synchronize their actions.Example : chat program used on the world wide web.It is useful in distributed computer systems where communicating processes reside on different computers connected with a network.
What Is Significance Of " * " ?												
The symbol * tells the computer that you are declaring a pointer. Actually it depends on context.	In a statement like int *ptr; the * tells that you are declaring a pointer.In a statement like int i = *ptr; it tells that you want to assign value pointed to by ptr to variable i.The symbol * is also called as Indirection Operator/ Dereferencing Operator.	
how do you explain substring search
stringsearching algorithms sometimes called stringmatching algorithms are an important class of string algorithms that try to find a place where one or several strings also called patterns are found within a larger string or text
what do you mean by advantage of heuristic algorithm 
in principle if run for an infinite amount of time they will find the optimal solution their merit is that they can find a solution very close to the optimal solution in a relatively short time
how do you explain hamming distance 
sum number of positions which are different
how do you explain multiplication algorithms
fast multiplication of two numbers
What is an operating system?
The operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software. It is the most important part of a computer system without it computer is just like a box. 
how do you explain a internal node
nternal node an intermediate node between the root and the leaf nodes is called an internal node it is also referred to as a non terminal node in preceding figure nodes 736 and 9 are internal nodes
What operation does the Selection Sort use to move numbers from the unsorted section to the sorted section of the list?							
The Selection Sort uses the swap operation since it is ordering numbers within a single list.							
how do you explain dameraulaenshtein distance 
dameraulevenshtein distance compute a distance measure between two strings improves on levenshtein distance
how do you explain the use of threaded binary tree
in threaded binary tree the null pointers are replaced by some addresses the left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor
define ahocorasick substring problem 
based algorithm for finding all substring matches to any of a finite set of strings
define the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
define the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
how do you explain relative path
absolute path is exact path from root directory
define a kernel
kernel is the part of os which handles all details of sharing resources and device handlingit can be considered as the core of os which manages the core features of an osits purpose is to handle the communication between software and hardwareits services are used through system calls and a layer of software called shell wraps around the kernel
What is bucket sort 
bucket sort, or bin sort, is a sorting algorithm that works by distributing the elements of an array into a number of buckets
what do you mean by best case performance of bubble sort algorithm
the best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is on
what do you mean by significance of    
the symbol  tells the computer that you are declaring a pointer actually it depends on contextin a statement like int ptr the  tells that you are declaring a pointerin a statement like int i  ptr it tells that you want to assign value pointed to by ptr to variable ithe symbol  is also called as indirection operator dereferencing operator
how do you explain shoe lace algorithm 
determine the area of a polygon whose vertices are described by ordered pairs in the plane
how do you explain lagrange interpolation 
interpolation using lagrange polynomials
what do you mean by polynomial long division
an algorithm for dividing a polynomial by another polynomial of the same or lower degree 
how do you explain gausslegendre algorithm 
computes the digits of pi
what do you mean by time sharing system
in a timesharing system the cpu executes multiple jobs by switching among them also known as multitasking this process happens so fast that users can interact with each program while it is running
how do you explain the use of threaded binary tree
in threaded binary tree the null pointers are replaced by some addresses the left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor
How Many Different Trees Are Possible With 10 Nodes ?							
1014 - For example	 consider a tree with 3 nodes(n=3)	 it will have the maximum combination of 5 different (ie	 23 - 3 =? 5) trees.				
What is a trap and trapdoor?
Trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication. A trap is a software interrupt, usually the result of an error condition.
what is subtree?							
Subtree: A portion of a tree	 which can be viewed as tree in itself	is called subtree. In preceding figure the tree starting at node 7	 containing nodes 2 and 6.A subtree can also contain just one node called the leaf node.				
define polynomial long division
an algorithm for dividing a polynomial by another polynomial of the same or lower degree 
What Is A Cycle Or A Circuit?							
A path which originates and ends in the same node is called a cycle or circuit.					
how do you explain chans algorithm 
is an optimal outputsensitive algorithm to compute the convex hull of a set points in 2 or 3dimensional space
define user program
the instructions to be executed
What Are The Tasks Performed During Inorder Traversal?							
Traverse the left sub-tree.Process the root node.Traverse the right sub-tree.							
how do you explain gift wrapping algorithm 
in computational geometry the gift wrapping algorithm is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a given set of point
What is aho-corasick substring problem 
based algorithm for finding all substring matches to any of a finite set of strings
define bucket sort 
bucket sort or bin sort is a sorting algorithm that works by distributing the elements of an array into a number of buckets
define advantage of heuristic algorithm 
in principle if run for an infinite amount of time they will find the optimal solution their merit is that they can find a solution very close to the optimal solution in a relatively short time
what do you mean by cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
what do you mean by process synchronization
a situation where several processes access and manipulate the same data concurrently and the outcome of the execution depends on the particular order in which the access takes place is called race condition to guard against the race condition we need to ensure that only one process at a time can be manipulating the same data the technique we use for this is called process synchronization
define  karatsuba algorithm 
the karatsuba algorithm is a fast multiplication algorithm
define fragmentation
fragmentation is memory wasted it can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixedsized allocation units or external if we are dealing with systems that have variablesized allocation units
What is the concept of demand paging?
Demand paging specifies that if an area of memory is not currently being used, it is swapped to disk to make room for an application's need. 
What is Short term scheduler 
Short term scheduler also know as a dispatcher executes most frequently, and makes the finest-grained decision of which process should execute next. This scheduler is invoked whenever an event occurs. It may lead to interruption of one process by preemption.
what do you mean by kernel 
kernel is the core and essential part of computer operating system that provides basic services for all parts of os
how do you explain level of a node
level of a node the distance of a node from the root is called the level of a node the root always lies at level 0 as move down the tree the level of a node increases in such a way that if a node is at level n then its children are at level n1 in preceding figure level of node 1 is 0 level of nodes 7 and 3 are 1 and so on
define significance of    
the symbol  tells the computer that you are declaring a pointer actually it depends on contextin a statement like int ptr the  tells that you are declaring a pointerin a statement like int i  ptr it tells that you want to assign value pointed to by ptr to variable ithe symbol  is also called as indirection operator dereferencing operator
What Are The Major Data Structures Used In The Following Areas  Network Data Model & Hierarchical Data Model?							
RDBMS  Array (i.e. Array of structures),Network data model  Graph,Hierarchical data model  Trees							
how do you explain dram  
dynamic ram stores the data in the form of capacitance and static ram stores the data in voltages
what do you mean by discrete logarithm 
the discrete logarithm logb a is an integer k such that bk  a
what do you mean by introselect 
introselect short for introspective selection is a selection algorithm that is a hybrid of quickselect and median of medians which has fast average performance and optimal worstcase
what do you mean by the need for path compression
path compression is performed during a find operation suppose if we want to perform findx then the effect of path compression is that every node on the path from x to the root has its parent changed to the root
Define Leaves?							
These are the terminal nodes of the tree. The nodes with degree 0 are always the leaves.Here C and B are the leave nodes.							
what do you mean by the idea behind splaying
splaying reduces the total accessing time if the most frequently accessed node is moved towards the root it does not require to maintain any information regarding the height or balance factor and hence saves space and simplifies the code to some extent
What is extended euclidean algorithm 
Also solves the equation ax + by = c.
how do you explain shell sort
an attempt to improve insertion sort
what do you mean by bowyerwatson algorithm 
create voronoi diagram in any number of dimensions
how do you explain longest common substring problem
find the longest string or strings that is a substring or are substrings of two or more strings
What Is The Best Page Size When Designing An Operating System?
The best paging size varies from system to system, so there is no single best when it comes to page size. There are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size, such as page table, paging time, and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system.
what do you mean by page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
What is longest common substring problem
find the longest string (or strings) that is a substring (or are substrings) of two or more strings
how do you explain the translation lookaside buffer tlb
in a cached system the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the tlb that aids in faster lookup tlb contains those pagetable entries that have been most recently used normally each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses one to fetch appropriate pagetable entry and one to fetch the desired data using tlb inbetween this is reduced to just one physical memory access in cases of tlbhit
How do you measure the algorithms performance.
Elegance (compactness) versus goodness (speed)
how do you explain a
a pronounced a star is a computer algorithm that is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal which is the process of finding a path between multiple points called nodes 
what do you mean by merge sorting
comparisonbased sorting algorithm
Define Linked Lists?							
Linked list consists of a series of structures	 which are not necessarily adjacent in memory. Each structure contains the element and a pointer to a structure containing its successor. We call this the Next Pointer. The last cells Next pointer points to NULL.						
What are the disadvantages of Microkernels?
Following are the main disadvantages of Microkernels. Usually these disadvantages are situation based.Larger running memory footprint, Performance loss due to the requirement of more software for interfacing,Difficulty in fixing the messaging bugs and Complicated process management.
how do you explain tonellishanks algorithm 
the tonellishanks algorithm referred to by shanks as the ressol algorithm is used in modular arithmetic to solve for r in a congruence of the form r2  n mod p where p is a prime that is to find a square root of n modulo p
what do you mean by radix sort
sorts strings letter by letter
what do you mean by a drawback of mvt
it does not have the features like ability to support multiple processorsvirtual storagesource level debuggingwhen the os at the explicit request of another process creates a process this action is called process spawning
Define Graph Traversals?							
Traversing a graph is an efficient way to visit each vertex and edge exactly once.							
what do you mean by shifting nthroot algorithm 
digit by digit root extraction
How there is reduction of complexity
This technique involves solving a difficult problem by transforming it into a better-known problem
how do you explain spooling
spooling is normally associated with printing when different applications want to send an output to the printer at the same time spooling takes all of these print jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer
how do you explain rr scheduling algorithm
rr roundrobin scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for timesharing systems a circular queue is a setup in such a way that the cpu scheduler goes around that queue allocating cpu to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds
define metaphone 
an algorithm for indexing words by their sound when pronounced in english
define kosrajus problem
kosarajus algorithm also known as the kosarajusharir algorithm is a linear time algorithm to find the strongly connected components of a directed graph
Define A Complete Binary Tree?								
A complete binary tree is a tree in which every non-leaf node has exactly two children not necessarily to be on the same level.								
how do you explain thrashing
thrashing occurs when the processor is spending most of its time in swapping pages instead of executing the instructions
what do you mean by kernel 
kernel is the core and most important part of a computer operating system which provides basic services for all parts of the os
define schonhagestrassen algorithm 
the schnhagestrassen algorithm is an asymptotically fast multiplication algorithm for large integers 
how do you explain strongly connected components
in the mathematical theory of directed graphs a graph is said to be strongly connected or diconnected if every vertex is reachable from every other vertex
What is deadlock? Explain.
Deadlock is a specific situation or condition where two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start. But this situation causes hang for both of them.
how do you explain nos
nos is short for network operating system it is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network including filefolder sharing
How do you define tree in a data structure?							
A tree is a nonlinear data structure that represents a hierarchical relationship among the various data elements	 						
What is demand paging?
Demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the RAM, then the OS brings the missing(and required) pages from the disk into the RAM.
What is spectral layout 
Spectral layout is a class of algorithm for drawing graphs
define timestamping
it is a technique proposed by lamport used to order events in a distributed system without the use of clocks this scheme is intended to order events consisting of the transmission of messages each system i in the network maintains a counter ci every time a system transmits a message it increments its counter by 1 and attaches the timestamp ti to the message when a message is received the receiving system j sets its counter cj to 1 more than the maximum of its current value and the incoming timestamp ti at each site the ordering of messages is determined by the following rules for messages x from site i and y from site j x precedes y if one of the following conditions holdsa if titj or b if titj and ij
define the concept of demand paging
demand paging specifies that if an area of memory is not currently being used it is swapped to disk to make room for an applications need 
What is the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm?							
The bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth.							
define chakravala method 
a cyclic algorithm to solve indeterminate quadratic equations including pells equation
How do you classify algorithms
One way to classify algorithms is by implementation means.
define knuth morris pratt algorithm
substring search which bypasses reexamination of matched characters
what do you mean by the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
What is the difference between logical address space and physical address space?
Logical address space specifies the address that is generated by CPU. On the other hand physical address space specifies the address that is seen by the memory unit.
What problems are faced during the implementation of a network-transparent system?
The Andrews files system.The NFS system.Both these file systems (distributed) appear as a single file system to the user whereas in reality it may be distributed over the network.The secondary issue is regarding the user mobility. The designer would want any user to connect to the entire system overall rather than to a particular machine.
how do you explain graham scan 
grahams scan is a method of finding the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane with time complexity on log n
Enumerate the different RAID levels.
RAID 0  Non-redundant striping,RAID 1  Mirrored Disks,RAID 2  Memory-style error-correcting codes,RAID 3  Bit-interleaved Parity,RAID 4  Block-interleaved Parity,RAID 5  Block-interleaved distributed Parity,RAID 6  P+Q Redundancy
What is backward Euler method 
In numerical analysis and scientific computing, the backward Euler method (or implicit Euler method) is one of the most basic numerical methods for the solution of ordinary differential equations.
define a compiler
a compiler is a program that takes a source code as an input and converts it into an object code during the compilation process the source code goes through lexical analysis parsing and intermediate code generation which is then optimized to give final output as an object code
how do you explain fcfs
fcfs stands for first come first served it is a type of scheduling algorithm in this scheme if a process requests the cpu first it is allocated to the cpu first its implementation is managed by a fifo queue
how do you explain an expression tree
an expression tree is a tree which is build from infix or prefix or postfix expression generally in such a tree the leaves are operands and other nodes are operators
How Memory Is Reserved Using A Declaration Statement ?							
Memory is reserved using data type in the variable declaration. A programming language implementation has predefined sizes for its data types.For example	 in C# the declaration int i; will reserve 32 bits for variable i.A pointer declaration reserves memory for the address or the pointer variable	 but not for the data that it will point to. The memory for the data pointed by a pointer has to be allocated at runtime.The memory reserved by the compiler for simple variables and for storing pointer address is allocated on the stack	 while the memory allocated for pointer referenced data at runtime is allocated on the heap.						
what do you mean by dangling pointer and how to avoid it
after a call to freep makes a subsequent reference to p illegal ie though the storage to p is freed but the value of paddress remain unchanged so the object at that address may be used as the value of p ie there is no way to detect the illegalityhere p is called dangling pointerto avoid this it is better to set p to null after executing freepthe null pointer value doesnt reference a storage location it is a pointer that doesnt point to anything
how do you explain wait time
this is the time that a process spends for its turn to get executed
what do you mean by worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm
worst case  on2 and average case  on2
What is hirschberhs algorithm
finds the least cost sequence alignment between two sequences, as measured by their Levenshtein distance
What is NOS?
NOS is short for Network Operating System. It is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network, including file/folder sharing.
What do you know about interrupt?
Interrupt can be understood as a signal from a device causing context switch. To handle the interrupts, interrupt handlers or service routines are required. The address of each Interrupt service routine is provided in a list which is maintained in interrupt vector.
how do you explain direct access method
direct access method is based on a disk model of a file such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records it allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written direct access is 
what do you mean by shell sort
an attempt to improve insertion sort
how do you explain maxcliquedyn maximum clique algorithm 
the maxcliquedyn algorithm is an algorithm for finding a maximum clique in an undirected graph 
What is Banker's algorithm?
Banker's algorithm is used to avoid deadlock. It is the one of deadlock-avoidance method. It is named as Banker's algorithm on the banking system where bank never allocates available cash in such a manner that it can no longer satisfy the requirements of all of its customers. 
define buchbergers algorithm
finds a grbner basis
what do you mean by uniform binary search
an optimization of the classic binary search algorithm
how do you explain pollards kangaroo algorithm 
an algorithm for solving the discrete logarithm problem
What are pages?
Pages are same sized pieces of logical memory of a program. Usually they range from 4 KB to 8 KB depending on the addressing hardware of the machine. Pages improve the overall system performance and reduces requirement of physical storage as the data is read in 'page' units.
how do you explain gui
gui is short for graphical user interface it provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols people find it easier to interact with the computer when in a gui especially when using the mouse instead of having to remember and type commands users click on buttons to perform a process
how do you explain the data structures used to perform recursion
stack because of its lifo last in first out property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls
What is cycle stealing?
We encounter cycle stealing in the context of Direct Memory Access (DMA). Either the DMA controller can use the data bus when the CPU does not need it, or it may force the CPU to temporarily suspend operation. The latter technique is called cycle stealing. Note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle.
how do you explain general problem solver 
any problem that can be expressed as a set of wellformed formulas wffs or horn clauses and that constitute a directed graph with one or more sources viz axioms and sinks viz desired conclusions can be solved
What is bitonic sorter 
Bitonic mergesort is a parallel algorithm for sorting. It is also used as a construction method for building a sorting network.
What is cycle stealing?
We encounter cycle stealing in the context of Direct Memory Access (DMA). Either the DMA controller can use the data bus when the CPU does not need it, or it may force the CPU to temporarily suspend operation. The latter technique is called cycle stealing. Note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle.
what do you mean by preemptive multitasking
preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs this in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes
define sorted lists 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order
How can the efficiency of bubble sort algorithm be determined?							
The efficiency of bubble sort algorithm can be determined in terms of the number of comparisons.							
define a command interpreter
it is a program that interprets the command input through keyboard or command batch file it helps the user to interact with the os and trigger the required system programs or execute some user application command interpreter is also referred to as control card interpretercommand line interpreterconsole command processor and shell
Where are algorithms used
Algorithms are used for  calculation, data processing, and automated reasoning tasks.
What is busy waiting?
The repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busy-waiting. The CPU is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period, and the process does not progress toward completion.
define the need for extendible hashing
if either open addressing hashing or separate chaining hashing is used the major problem is that collisions could cause several blocks to be examined during a find even for a welldistributed hash table extendible hashing allows a find to be performed in two disk accesses insertions also require few disk accesses
what do you mean by a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
how do you explain modular square root 
computing square roots modulo a prime number
What is the purpose of Multi-processing operating system
It is the ability where a user can execute multiple processes simultaneously on a multi-processor system. This utilizes more than one CPU at a time.
what do you mean by gui
gui is short for graphical user interface it provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols people find it easier to interact with the computer when in a gui especially when using the mouse instead of having to remember and type commands users just click on buttons to perform a process
what do you mean by busy waiting
the repeated execution of a loop of code while waiting for an event to occur is called busywaiting the cpu is not engaged in any real productive activity during this period and the process does not progress toward completion
What are the advantages of a multiprocessor system?
With an increased number of processors, there is a considerable increase in throughput. It can also save more money because they can share resources. Finally, overall reliability is increased as well.
How do we define bubble sort?							
Bubble sort repeatedly scan the list	 comparing adjacent elements swapping them if they are in wrong order. 						
How would a file name EXAMPLEFILE.TXT appear when viewed under the DOS command console operating in Windows 98?
The filename would appear as EXAMPL~1.TXT . The reason behind this is that filenames under this operating system are limited to 8 characters when working under DOS environment.
What is Tarjan's off-line lowest common ancestors algorithm
compute lowest common ancestors for pairs of nodes in a tree
What Is A Weighted Graph?						
A graph in which weights are assigned to every edge is called a weighted graph.							
What are the disadvantages of using threads?
The main disadvantages of using threads are Threads can not be re-used as they exist within a single process.They corrupt the address space of their process. They need synchronization for concurrent read-write access to memory.
define discrete logarithm 
the discrete logarithm logb a is an integer k such that bk  a
define smooth sort 
like heapsort smoothsort is an inplace algorithm with an upper bound of on log n2 but it is not a stable
how do you explain radix sort
sorts strings letter by letter
What is hopcroft- karp algorithm 
convert a bipartite graph to a maximum cardinality matching
define the best page size when designing an operating system
the best paging size varies from system to system so there is no single best when it comes to page size there are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size such as page table paging time and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system
how do you explain cachecoherency
in a multiprocessor system there exist several caches each may containing a copy of same variable a then a change in one cache should immediately be reflected in all other caches this process of maintaining the same value of a data in all the caches s called cachecoherency
what do you mean by the zombie process
a zombie process is a process which has completed and in the terminated state but has its entry in the process table it shows that the resources are held by the process and are not free
What is level set method 
a numerical technique for tracking interfaces and shapes
define floydwarshall algorithm
the shortest path to a goal from a vertex in a weighted graph can be found by using the shortest path to the goal from all adjacent vertices 
what do you mean by the purpose of multiprogramming operating system
this acts to be an extension of batch os where main memory can have several jobs at once and they would be executed in a particular order at a particular time
what do you mean by the meaning of export command in ubuntu
export is a command in bash shell language when you try to set a variable it is visible or exported to any subprocess started from that instance of bash  the variable will not exist in the subprocess without the export command
What is minimum bounding box algorithm 
find the oriented minimum bounding box enclosing a set of points
how do you explain exponentiating by squaring 
a way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
What are loosely coupled systems?
These systems are also called as the distributed systems.It consist of collection of processors that do not share memory or clock.The processors communicate through high speed buses or telephone lines.It can be a centralized system where the server responds to client requests.It can also be a peer to peer system.
define a directed graph
a graph in which every edge is directed is called a directed graph
what do you mean by d
an incremental heuristic search algorithm
What is chudnovsky algorithm 
A fast method for calculating the digits of p
What is the need of device status table?
This table gives the device type, its address and status.It is required to keep a track of many input output requests at the same time.The state of the device can be functioning, idle or busy.If a device is busy, type of request and other parameters are stored in the table entry. If more than one processor issues request for the same device then a wait queue is maintained.
what is leaf node?							
Leaf Node:Anode with no children is called leaf node. They are also referred as terminal nodes. In the given figure	2	5	11 and 4 are leaf nodes				
Write an algorithm for in order traversing of binary tree.							
Algorithm:Inorder(root)		If(root=NULL): Exit	Inorder(left child of root)			Visit(root)	Inorder(right child of root)							
Explain the main purpose of an operating system?
Operating systems exist for two main purposes. One is that it is designed to make sure a computer system performs well by managing its computational activities. Another is that it provides an environment for the development and execution of programs.
what do you mean by bogosort 
it is a highly ineffective sorting algorithm based on the generate and test paradigm the function successively generates permutations of its input until it finds one that is sorted it is not useful for sorting but may be used for educational purposes to contrast it with more efficient algorithms
what do you mean by a socket
a socket provides a connection between two applications each endpoint of a communication is a socket
what do you mean by smp
smp stands for symmetric multiprocessing it is the most common type of multiple processor system in smp each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another when required
how do you explain the need for path compression
path compression is performed during a find operation suppose if we want to perform findx then the effect of path compression is that every node on the path from x to the root has its parent changed to the root
define ftdisk
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
What is radix sort
sorts strings letter by letter.
What are the basic criteria for selecting appropriate algorithm?							
Execution Time.	Storage Space.Programming Effort.							
what do you mean by a named pipe
a traditional pipe is unnamed and can be used only for the communication of related process if unrelated processes are required to communicate  named pipes are required it is a pipe whose access point is a file available on the file system when this file is opened for reading a process is granted access to the reading end of the pipe similarly when the file is opened for writing the process is granted access to writing end of the pipe a named pipe is also referred to as fifo or named fifo
When is a system in safe state?
The set of dispatchable processes is in a safe state if there exists at least one temporal order in which all processes can be run to completion without resulting in a deadlock.
define schensted algorithm 
constructs a pair of young tableaux from a permutation
Write an algorithm for inserting node at the beginning of the doubly-linked list	 when list is not empty.						
Allocate memory for the new node.Assign a value to the data field of the new node.Make the next field of the new point to the first node in the list.							
Why is interrupt vector used in operating systems?
The operating system these days are interrupt driven and this requires the interrupt vector.This interrupt vector contains the addresses of the interrupt service routines for various devices. Here the interrupts can be indirectly called through the table with no intermediate routine needed.This leads to interrupt handling at a faster rate. Operating systems like MS DOS and UNIX are using the interrupt vector.
define raid 
this is the basic os interview questions which is asked in an interview raid stands for redundant array of independent disks to improve overall performance the data is stored redundantly and used whenever required
What Is A Socket?
A socket provides a connection between two applications. Each endpoint of a communication is a socket.
What Is Impact Of Signed Numbers On The Memory?				
Sign of the number is the first bit of the storage allocated for that number. So you get one bit less for storing the number. For example if you are storing an 8-bit number	 without sign	 the range is 0-255. If you decide to store sign you get 7 bits for the number plus one bit for the sign. So the range is -128 to +127.					
how do you explain ukkonens algorithms
a lineartime online algorithm for constructing suffix trees
What is unrestricted algorithm 
An unrestricted algorithm is an algorithm for the computation of a mathematical function that puts no restrictions on the range of the argument or on the precision that may be demanded in the result.
define the best page size when designing an operating system
the best paging size varies from system to system so there is no single best when it comes to page size there are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size such as page table paging time and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system
What is the use of paging in operating system?
Paging is used to solve the external fragmentation problem in operating system. This technique ensures that the data you need is available as quickly as possible. 
how do you explain algorithm design 
algorithm design refers to a method or mathematical process for problemsolving and engineering algorithm
What is jump search
linear search on a smaller subset of the sequence
define priority queue
priority queue is an abstract data type which is like a regular queue or stack data structure but where additionally each element has a priority associated with it
what do you mean by meant by strongly connected in a graph
an undirected graph is connected if there is a path from every vertex to every other vertex a directed graph with this property is called strongly connected
What are merits and demerits of systems supporting multiple file structure and systems supporting a stream of bytes?
A good alternative for this is that the OS does not define any support for file structures instead all files are considered to be a series of bytes. By doing so the support for file systems is simplified as the OS does not have to specify the different structures for the file systems. It allows the applications to define the file structures. This kind of implementation can be found in UNIX.
When Can You Tell That A Memory Leak Will Occur?							
A memory leak occurs when a program loses the ability to free a block of dynamically allocated memory.							
Define An Abstract Data Type (adt)?							
An abstract data type is a set of operations. ADTs are mathematical abstractions; now here in an ADTs definition is there any mention of how the set of operations is implemented. Objects such as lists	 sets and graphs	 along with their operations can be viewed as abstract data types.					
What Do You Mean By Collision In Hashing?							
When an element is inserted	 it hashes to the same value as an already inserted element	 and then it produces collision.				
Define Left-in Threaded Tree?							
Left-in threaded binary tree is defined as one in which each NULL pointers is altered to contain a thread to that nodes inorder predecessor.						
what do you mean by user data
modifiable part of user space may include program data user stack area and programs that may be modified
What are its main functions?
The main functions of an OS are Process Management,Memory Management,Input/ Output Management,Storage/ File system management
how do you explain the advantage of a multiprocessor system
as many as processors are increased you will get the considerable increment in throughput it is cost effective also because they can share resources so the overall reliability increases 
how do you explain bitap algorithm 
fuzzy algorithm that determines if strings are approximately equal
define coloring algorithm 
graph colouring algorithm
define baileyborwein plouffe formula
a spigot algorithm for the computation of the nth binary digit of p
what do you mean by a binary semaphore what is its use
a binary semaphore is one which takes only 0 and 1 as values they are used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes
define the translation lookaside buffer tlb
in a cached system the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the tlb that aids in faster lookup tlb contains those pagetable entries that have been most recently used normally each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses one to fetch appropriate pagetable entry and one to fetch the desired data using tlb inbetween this is reduced to just one physical memory access in cases of tlbhit
how do you explain the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 queens problem
backtracking 
Define Heap?							
A heap is defined to be a complete binary tree with the property that the value of each node is atleast as small as the value of its child nodes	 if they exist. The root node of the heap has the smallest value in the tree.						
what do you mean by eide
eide is a bus called enhanced integrated drive electronicsthe input output devices are attached to the computer by a set of wires called the busthe data transfer on a bus are carried out by electronic processes called controllersthe host controller sends messages to device controller and device controller performs the operationsthese device controllers consist of built in cache so that data transfer occurs at faster speed
define the worst case scenario for bubble sort and why
the worst situation for bubble sort is when the lists smallest element is in the last position in this situation the smallest element will move down one place on each pass through the list meaning that the sort will need to make the maximum number of passes through the list namely n  1
how do you explain patience sorting
a variant of the algorithm efficiently computes the length of a longest increasing subsequence in a given array
how do you explain lexicographic breadth search
a linear time algorithm for ordering the vertices of a graph
Define Depth And Height Of A Node?								
For any node ni	 the depth of ni is the length of the unique path from the root to ni. The height of ni is the length of the longest path from ni to a leaf.					
Explain the different sections of a process.
Stack: contains local variables, returns address,Heap: Dynamically allocated memory via malloc, calloc,realloc,Data: contains global and the static variables,Code or text: contains code, program counter and content of processors register.
What is Process control Block (PCB)
Info needed by the OS to control processes.
what do you mean by truncation method
this method is used to compute the address of a record in this method a part of the numeric key is considered as an offset address of the corresponding record
what do you mean by matching triangles
reconstruct twodimensional surface geometry from an unstructured point cloud
what do you mean by load sharing
processes are not assigned to a particular processor a global queue of threads is maintained each processor when idle selects a thread from this queue note that load balancing refers to a scheme where work is allocated to processors on a more permanent basis
What are the advantages of distributed system?
Advantages of distributed system are Resources get shared,Load gets shared,Reliability is improved,Provide a support for inter-process communication
what do you mean by closest pair problem
find the pair of points from a set of points with the smallest distance between them
What is best case performance of bubble sort algorithm?							
The best case performance of bubble sort algorithm is O(n).							
In tree construction which is the suitable efficient data structure(a) Array           (b) Linked list              (c) Stack           (d) Queue   (e) none 							
(b) Linked list 							
define toomcook algorithm
it is a multiplication algorithm for large integers
define an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
how do you explain medium term scheduling
medium term scheduling is part of the swapping function this relates to processes that are in a blocked or suspended state they are swapped out of realmemory until they are ready to execute the swappingin decision is based on memorymanagement criteria
define shifting nthroot algorithm 
digit by digit root extraction
What is logarithmic time 
Logarithmic time: if the time is a logarithmic function of the input size. E.g. binary search algorithm.
What is matching triangles
reconstruct two-dimensional surface geometry from an unstructured point cloud
What is linear programming 
When searching for optimal solutions to a linear function bound to linear equality and inequality constraints, the constraints of the problem can be used directly in producing the optimal solutions.
define a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization in general a thread is composed of a thread id program counter register set and the stack
State one advantage of a Huffman tree.							
A Huffman tree helps assign variable length codes to the characters in a message. It also ensures that the character codes have the prefix property.							
what do you mean by gilbertjohnsonkeerthi distance algorithm 
determining the smallest distance between two convex shapes
what do you mean by birkhoff interpolation 
an extension of polynomial interpolation
what do you mean by pollards rho algorithm 
it uses only a small amount of space and its expected running time is proportional to the square root of the size of the smallest prime factor of the composite number being factorized
how do you explain euclidean minimum spanning tree 
algorithms for computing the minimum spanning tree of a set of points in the plane
What is heapnsort 
pick the smallest of the remaining elements, add it to the end of the sorted list
define bentleyottmann algorithm 
the bentleyottmann algorithm is a sweep line algorithm for listing all crossings in a set of line segments
how do you explain primss algorithm 
prims also known as jarnks algorithm is a greedy algorithm that finds a minimum spanning tree for a weighted undirected graph
what do you mean by the function of turnaround time
this is considered to be the time elapsed from when a process is submitted to when it has completed
What are the different operating systems?
Batched operating systems,Distributed operating systems,Timesharing operating systems,Multi-programmed operating systems,Real-time operating systems
define forcebased algorithms
forcedirected graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aestheticallypleasing way
how do you explain bitonic sorter 
bitonic mergesort is a parallel algorithm for sorting it is also used as a construction method for building a sorting network
define a drawback of mvt
they are  theability to support multiple processorsvirtual storagesource level debugging
What is filtered back projection 
efficiently compute the inverse 2-dimensional Radon transform.
what do you mean by difference between micro kernel and macro kernel
micro kernel is a kernel which run services those are minimal for operating system performance in this kernel all other operations are performed by processormacro kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel in monolithic kernel all operating system code is in single executable image
define graph search algorithm
if each vertex in a graph is to be traversed by a treebased algorithm such as dfs or bfs then the algorithm must be called at least once for each connected component of the graph 
what do you mean by ruperts algorithm 
create quality delaunay triangulations
define binary gcd algorithm
efficient way of calculating gcd
what do you mean by linear search 
finds an item in an unsorted sequence
how do you explain an idle thread
the special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found
what do you mean by long term scheduler
long term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing it controls the degree of multiprogramming once admitted a job becomes a process
What Does Abstract Data Type Mean?							
Data type is a collection of values and a set of operations on these values. Abstract data type refer to the mathematical concept that define the data type.						It is a useful tool for specifying the logical properties of a data type.							
Run Time Memory Allocation Is Known As ?					
Allocating memory at runtime is called a dynamically allocating memory. In this	 you dynamically allocate memory by using the new operator when declaring the array.				for example  int grades[] = new int[10];							
What are the different types of operating system?
Batch operating system, Multiprogramming operating system, Multi-tasking operating system, Multi-processing operating system, Real-time operating system.
what do you mean by triangularisation 
a triangulation is a subdivision of a planar object into triangles and by extension the subdivision of a higherdimension geometric object into simplices
what do you mean by babystep gain step
the babystep giantstep is a meetinthemiddle algorithm for computing the discrete logarithm
What is binary GCD algorithm
Efficient way of calculating GCD.
what do you mean by collision detection
check for the collision or intersection of two given solids
how do you explain gui
gui is short for graphical user interface it provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols people find it easier to interact with the computer when in a gui especially when using the mouse instead of having to remember and type commands users just click on buttons to perform a process
what do you mean by spaghetti sort 
this algorithm sorts a sequence of items requiring on stack space in a stable manner it requires a parallel processor
how do you explain kernel
a kernel is the core of every operating system it connects applications to the actual processing of data it also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability
what do you mean by the translation lookaside buffer tlb
in a cached system the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the tlb that aids in faster lookup tlb contains those pagetable entries that have been most recently used normally each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses one to fetch appropriate pagetable entry and one to fetch the desired data using tlb inbetween this is reduced to just one physical memory access in cases of tlbhit
define children of tree
children of a node the roots of the subtrees of a node are called the children of the node in figure 7 and 3 are children of node 1
what do you mean by polynomial time
polynomial time if the time is a power of the input size eg the bubble sort algorithm has quadratic time complexity
how do you explain euclids algorithm
euclids algorithm to compute the greatest common divisor gcd
what do you mean by modular method
in this method modulus operation is applied on each key this involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division the remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value
What Do You Mean By The Term "percolate Down"?										
When the minimum element is removed	 a hole is created at the root. Since the heap now becomes one smaller	 it follows that the last element X in the heap must move somewhere in the heap. If X can be placed in the hole	 then we are done.. This is unlikely	 so we slide the smaller of the holes children into the hole	 thus pushing the hole down one level. We repeat this step until X can be placed in the hole. Thus	 our action is to place X in its correct spot along a path from the root containing minimum children. This general strategy is known as percolate down.
how do you explain caching
caching is the processing of utilizing a region of fast memory for a limited data and process a cache memory is usually much efficient because of its high access speed
what do you mean by knuthbendix completion algorithm
for rewriting rule system 
define b
in computer science b pronounced b star is a bestfirst graph search algorithm that finds the leastcost path from a given initial node to any goal node out of one or more possible goals
what do you mean by modular method
in this method modulus operation is applied on each key this involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division the remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value
how do you explain serial algorithm
algorithms are usually discussed with the assumption that computers execute one instruction of an algorithm at a time those computers are sometimes called serial computers an algorithm designed for such an environment is called a serial algorithm 
Define A Full Binary Tree ?								
A full binary tree is a tree in which all the leaves are on the same level and every non-leaf node has exactly two children.								
What is pigeonhole sort 
Pigeonhole sorting is a sorting algorithm that is suitable for sorting lists of elements where the number of elements (n) and the length of the range of possible key values (N) are approximately the same.
how do you explain geometric hashing 
a method for efficiently finding twodimensional objects represented by discrete points that have undergone an affine transformation
how do you explain linear time 
linear time if the time is proportional to the input size eg the traverse of a list
If You Are Using C Language To Implement The Heterogeneous Linked List,what Pointer Type Will You Use?												
The heterogeneous linked list contains different data types in its nodes and we need a link pointer to connect them. It is not possible to use ordinary pointers for this. So we go for void pointer. Void pointer is capable of storing pointer to any type as it is a generic pointer type.						
Pool is a list consisting of unused memory cells which has its own pointer.							
What Do You Mean By Garbage Collection?							
what do you mean by a queue
a queue is an ordered collection of items from which items may be deleted at one end front end and items inserted at the other end rear endit obeys fifo rule there is no limit to the number of elements a queue contains
What is dices coefficient 
a similarity measure related to the Jaccard index
how do you explain an assembler
an assembler acts as a translator for lowlevel language assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the assembler into machine language
List Out Few Of The Applications That Make Use Of Multilinked Structures?							
Sparse matrix Index generation.						
define linear interpolation 
a method of curve fitting using linear polynomials
how do you explain advantage of heuristic algorithm 
in principle if run for an infinite amount of time they will find the optimal solution their merit is that they can find a solution very close to the optimal solution in a relatively short time
What is dual-mode operation?
In order to protect the operating systems and the system programs from the malfunctioning programs the two mode operations were evolved,System mode and User mode.
what do you mean by linear time 
linear time if the time is proportional to the input size eg the traverse of a list
what do you mean by warnsdorffs rule 
warnsdorfs rule is a heuristic for finding a knights tour
What is the purpose of Batch operating system
All jobs are submitted at once and are executed in a particular order with any preemption which means that no jobs can be taken unless these complete.
what do you mean by a queue 
a queue is a sequential organization of data a queue is a first in first out type of data structure an element is inserted at the last position and an element is always taken out from the first position
Does the minimum spanning tree of a graph give the shortest distance between any 2 specified nodes?							
No.  Minimal spanning tree assures that the total weight of the tree is kept at its minimum. But it doesnt mean that the distance between any two nodes involved in the minimumspanning tree is minimum. 							
Draw the structure of a linked list.							
first part represent data and second part represent address of next node							
define flash sort 
flashsort is a distribution sorting algorithm showing linear computational complexity for uniformly distributed data sets and relatively little additional memory requirement
define steinhausjohnsontrotter algorithm 
generate permutations by transposing elements
define graceful degradation
it is the ability to continue providing service proportional to level of hardwaresystems designed for graceful degradation are called fault tolerantif we have several processors connected together then failure of one would not stop the systemthen the entire system runs only 10 slowerthis leads to increased reliability of the system
what do you mean by push relabel algorithm 
computes a maximum flow in a graph
define  dispatcher
dispatcher module gives control of the cpu to the process selected by the shortterm scheduler this involves switching context switching to user mode jumping to the proper location in the user program to restart that program dispatch latency  time it takes for the dispatcher to stop one process and start another running
define an operating system
an operating system is a collection of software programs which control the allocation and usage of various hardware resources in the system it is the first program to be loaded in the computer and it runs in the memory till the system is shut down some of the popular operating systems are dos windows ubuntu solaris etc
What is worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm?							
O(1) auxiliary.							
How many jobs can be run concurrently on MVT?
15	obs.
what do you mean by a minimum spanning tree
a minimum spanning tree of an undirected graph g is a tree formed from graph edges that connects all the vertices of g at the lowest total cost
When Is A System In Safe State?
The set of dispatchable processes is in a safe state if there exists at least one temporal order in which all processes can be run to completion without resulting in a deadlock.
define spigot algorithm 
a way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
What is a thread?
A thread is a program line under execution. Thread sometimes called a light-weight process, is a basic unit of CPU utilization; it comprises a thread id, a program counter, a register set, and a stack
how do you explain logarithmic time 
logarithmic time if the time is a logarithmic function of the input size eg binary search algorithm
how do you explain an operating system
the operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software it is the most important part of a computer system without it computer is just like a box 
what do you mean by the worst case complexity of binary search
the worst case complexity of binary search is o1 
how do you explain spaghetti sort 
this algorithm sorts a sequence of items requiring on stack space in a stable manner it requires a parallel processor
What is wait time:
This is the time that a process spends for its turn to get executed.
define subtree
subtree a portion of a tree which can be viewed as tree in itselfis called subtree in preceding figure the tree starting at node 7 containing nodes 2 and 6a subtree can also contain just one node called the leaf node
What are the different states of a process?
A list of different states of process.They are new Process,Running Process,Waiting Process,Ready Process,Terminated Process.
define the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
how do you explain exponential time
exponential time if the time is an exponential function of the input size eg bruteforce search
what do you mean by fibonacci search technique 
search a sorted sequence using a divide and conquer algorithm that narrows down possible locations with the aid of fibonacci numbers
What is fortunes algorithm 
To create voronoi diagram
what do you mean by hopcroft karp algorithm 
convert a bipartite graph to a maximum cardinality matching
What is absolute path?
Relative path is Relative to the current path.
Give an example for transform and conquer
finding the median in an unsorted list involves first sorting the list (the expensive portion) and then pulling out the middle element in the sorted list (the cheap portion). This technique is also known as transform and conquer.
what do you mean by quantum algorithm 
the term is usually used for those algorithms which seem inherently quantum
It is the service called as distributed lock manager.In cluster systems to avoid file sharing the distributed systems must provide the access control and file locking.This ensures that no conflicting operations occur in the system.Here the distributed file systems are not general purpose therefore it requires locking.
Explain the handheld systems. List the issues related to the handheld system.Handheld devices are palm tops and cellular telephones with connectivity to a network.These devices are of limited size which leads to limited applications.They use a memory 512KB to 16MB as a result the operating system and applications must use the memory efficiently.The speed of the processors is only a fraction of speed of the PC processors and for faster processors larger battery is required.These devices use very small display screens so reading mails and browsing must be condensed to smaller displays.
how do you explain throughput turnaround time waiting time and response time
throughput  number of processes that complete their execution per time unitturnaround time  amount of time to execute a particular processwaiting time  amount of time a process has been waiting in the ready queueresponse time  amount of time 
What is merge algorithm 
Merge algorithms are a family of algorithms that take multiple sorted lists as input and produce a single list as output, containing all the elements of the inputs lists in sorted order. 
What is a address register?
Address registers  contain main memory addresses of data and instructions or they contain a portion of the address that is used in the calculation of the complete addresses.
What is monte carlo algorithm
In computing, a Monte Carlo algorithm is a randomized algorithm whose output may be incorrect with a certain (typically small) probability
What are sockets?
A socket is defined as endpoint for communication, a pair of sockets is used by the pair of processes. It is made of IP address chained with a port number.They use the client server architecture.Server waits for incoming client requests by listening to specified port.On reception of request, server accepts connection from client socket to complete the connection.
define johnsons algorithm 
all pairs shortest path algorithm in sparse weighted directed graph
In Rdbms What Is The Efficient Data Structure Used In The Internal Storage Representation?						
B+ tree. Because in B+ tree all the data is stored only in leaf nodes that makes searching easier. This corresponds to the records that shall be stored in leaf nodes.			
What is sample sort
Samplesort is a sorting algorithm that is a divide and conquer algorithm often used in parallel processing systems.
Explain how a copying garbage collector works. How can it be implemented using semispaces?
The copying garbage collector basically works by going through live objects and copying them into a specific region in the memory. This collector traces through all the live objects one by one. This entire process is performed in a single pass. Any object that is not copied in memory is garbage.
define shell sort
an attempt to improve insertion sort
How can a binary tree be represented as a linked list?	
with help of two links left and right and making the first node as root.						
What is FtDisk?
It is a fault tolerance disk driver for Windows NT.
what do you mean by virtual memory
virtual memory is a very useful memory management technique which enables processes to execute outside of memory this technique is especially used when an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory 
What is randomised algorithms 
Such algorithms make some choices randomly (or pseudo-randomly). They can be very useful in finding approximate solutions for problems 
What is asymmetric clustering?
In asymmetric clustering, a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server. That machine takes the active servers role should the server fails.
what do you mean by greedy algorithm
a greedy algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage1 with the intent of finding a global optimum
Explain SMP.It is called as symmetric multiprocessing which is multiprocessor system.In it each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system.These copies communicate with one another as needed.These processor systems lead to increased throughput.These systems are also called parallel systems or tightly coupled systems.
What is DLM?
define dices coefficient 
a similarity measure related to the jaccard index
What is thrashing?
It is a phenomenon in virtual memory schemes when the processor spends most of its time swapping pages, rather than executing instructions. This is due to an inordinate number of page faults.
How would you identify daemons in Unix?
The name of daemons usually end with 'd' at the end in Unix. For e.g. httpd, named, lpd.
how do you explain a virtual memory
virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory this is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory
how do you explain division algorithms 
for computing quotient andor remainder of two numbers
How Would A File Named Examplefile.txt Appear When Viewed Under The Dos Command Console Operating In Windows 98?
The filename would appear as EXAMPL~1.TXT . The reason behind this is that filenames under this operating system is limited to 8 characters when working under DOS environment.
What Is The Need For Priority Queue?							
In a multiuser environment	 the operating system scheduler must decide which of the several processes to run only for a fixed period of time. One algorithm uses queue. Jobs are initially placed at the end of the queue. The scheduler will repeatedly take the first job on the queue	 run it until either it finishes or its time limit is up and place it at the end of the queue if it does not finish. This strategy is not appropriate	 because very short jobs will soon to take a long time because of the wait involved in the run.				Generally	 it is important that short jobs finish as fast as possible	 so these jobs should have precedence over jobs that have already been running. Further more	 some jobs that are not short are still very important and should have precedence. This particular application seems to require a special kind of queue	 known as priority queue. Priority queue is also called as Heap or Binary Heap.			
how do you explain zhu takaoka string matching algorithms 
searches multiple patterns efficiently
State The Different Ways Of Representing Expressions?							
The different ways of representing expressions are		Infix Notation.	Prefix Notation.Postfix Notation.							
List some techniques that are used to design a hash function?							
There are various techniques that can be used to design the hash function:		Truncation Method	Modular Method	Mid Square Method	Folding Method							
Write an algorithm for in order traversing of binary tree.							
Algorithm:Inorder(root)		If(root=NULL): Exit		Inorder(left child of root)	Visit(root)		Inorder(right child of root)							
what do you mean by toddcoxeter algorithm
procedure for generating cosets
what do you mean by average case performance of binary search
the average case performance of binary search is olog n
what do you mean by difference between straight forward recursion and dynamic recursion 
the difference between dynamic programming and straightforward recursion is in caching or memoization of recursive calls 
how do you explain the best page size when designing an operating system
the best paging size varies from system to system so there is no single best when it comes to page size there are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size such as page table paging time and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system
define process spawning
when the os at the explicit request of another process creates a process this action is called process spawning
how do you explain ruperts algorithm 
create quality delaunay triangulations
define double metaphone 
the double metaphone phonetic encoding algorithm is the second generation of this algorithm
what do you mean by a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
How do you define tree in a data structure?							
A tree is a nonlinear data structure that represents a hierarchical relationship among the various data elements	 as shown in the following figure.	Each data elements in a tree is called a node. The topmost node of the tree is called a root							
What Do You Mean By Breadth First Search (bfs)?							
BFS performs simultaneous explorations starting from a common point and spreading out independently.				
define cantorzassenhaus algorithm 
factor polynomials over finite fields
what do you mean by geometric hashing 
a method for efficiently finding twodimensional objects represented by discrete points that have undergone an affine transformation
what do you mean by gui
gui is short for graphical user interface it provides users with an interface wherein actions can be performed by interacting with icons and graphical symbols people find it easier to interact with the computer when in a gui especially when using the mouse instead of having to remember and type commands users click on buttons to perform a process
what do you mean by hybrid kernel
it combines the aspect of both monolithic as well as a microkernelexample microsoft nt kernel
What is the advantage of a multiprocessor system?
As many as processors are increased, you will get the considerable increment in throughput. It is cost effective also because they can share resources. So, the overall reliability increases. 
how do you explain the purpose of multiprocessing operating system
it is the ability where a user can execute multiple processes simultaneously on a multiprocessor system this utilizes more than one cpu at a time
define an assembler
an assembler acts as a translator for low level language assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the assembler into machine language
how do you explain matching triangles
reconstruct twodimensional surface geometry from an unstructured point cloud
How does bidirectional search works
It runs two simultaneous searches: one forward from the initial state, and one backward from the goal, stopping when the two meet.
Why is algorithm used 
For calculating a function.Some alternate conceptions of algorithms used,alternate conceptions of what constitutes an algorithm see functional programming and logic programming.
Define Linear Data Structures?							
Linear data structures are data structures having a linear relationship between its adjacent elements.	Eg; Linked lists.							
define an operating system
the operating system is a software program that facilitates computer hardware to communicate and operate with the computer software it is the most important part of a computer system without it computer is just like a box 
how do you explain the concept of demand paging
demand paging specifies that if an area of memory is not currently being used it is swapped to disk to make room for an applications need 
what do you mean by data structure
a data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored but also their relationship to each other advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data
how do you explain boruvkas algorithm 
boruvkas algorithm is a greedy algorithm for finding a minimum spanning tree in a graph for which all edge weights are distinct or a minimum spanning forest in the case of a graph that is not connected
Describe the objective of multiprogramming.
The main objective of multiprogramming is to have a process running at all times. With this design, CPU utilization is said to be maximized.
List The Limitations Of Linear Probing?							
Time taken for finding the next available cell is large.In linear probing	 we come across a problem known as clustering.						
define edmondsedmondskara algorithm
implementation of fordfulkerson
how do you explain a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization it consists of a thread id program counter register set and a stack 
What is bead sort 
The bead sort operation can be compared to the manner in which beads slide on parallel poles, such as on an abacus.
Convert The Expression ((a + B) * C - (d - E) ^ (f + G)) To Equivalent Prefix And Postfix Notations?							
Prefix Notation		^  * +ABC  DE + FGpostfix Notation AB + C * DE   FG + ^						
What is cliques 
a clique (/'kli?k/ or /'kl?k/) is a subset of vertices of an undirected graph such that every two distinct vertices in the clique are adjacent; that is, its induced subgraph is complete
how do you explain line segment intersection
finding whether lines intersect usually with a sweep line algorithm
how do you explain fragmentation tell about different types of fragmentation
when many of free blocks are too small to satisfy any request then fragmentation occurs external fragmentation and internal fragmentation are two types of fragmentation external fragmentation happens when a dynamic memory allocation algorithm allocates some memory and a small piece is left over that cannot be effectively used  internal fragmentation is the space wasted inside of allocated memory blocks because of restriction on the allowed sizes of allocated blocks
what do you mean by the difference between micro kernel and macro kernel
micro kernel micro kernel is the kernel which runs minimal performance affecting services for operating system in micro kernel operating system all other operations are performed by processormacro kernel macro kernel is a combination of micro and monolithic kernel
How Many Parts Are There In A Declaration Statement?							
There are two main part variable identifier and data type and the third type is optional which is type qualifier like signed/unsigned.						
Write an algorithm to insert a node between two nodes in the list	 when the list is not empty.						
If the list is not empty the following algorithm is used to insert a node between two nodes in the linked list.	Identify the nodes between which th new node is to be inserted. Mark them as previous and current. To locate previous and current							
What Is A Simple Graph?							
A simple graph is a graph	 which has not more than one edge between a pair of nodes than such a graph is called a simple graph.						
define divide and conquer algorithm
a divide and conquer algorithm repeatedly reduces an instance of a problem to one or more smaller instances of the same problem usually recursively until the instances are small enough to solve easily
define string metrics 
compute a similarity or dissimilarity distance score between two pairs of text strings
What is the basic function of paging?
Paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physical address space of a process to be noncontiguous. It avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store.
define the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 queens problem
backtracking 
Define Adjacent Nodes?							
Any two nodes which are connected by an edge in a graphare called adjacent nodes. For example	 if an edge x ? E is associated with a pair of nodes (u	v) where u	 v ? V	 then we say that the edge x connects the nodes u and v.		
define cipollas algorithm 
cipollas algorithm is a technique for solving a congruence of the form
define bitap algorithm 
fuzzy algorithm that determines if strings are approximately equal
what do you mean by gang scheduling
a set of related threads is scheduled to run on a set of processors at the same time on a 1to1 basis closely related threads  processes may be scheduled this way to reduce synchronization blocking and minimize process switching group scheduling predated this strategy
A min heap is used to sort the list in which order?							
A min heap is used to sort the list in descending order.							
define linked list 
linked list is one of the fundamental data structures it consists of a sequence of  nodes each containing arbitrary data fields and one or two links pointing to the next andor previous nodes a linked list is a selfreferential datatype because it contains a pointer or link to another data of the same type linked lists permit insertion and removal of nodes at any point in the list in constant time but do not allow random access
Define A Binary Search Tree?							
A binary search tree is a special binary tree	 which is either empty or it should satisfy the following characteristics	Every node has a value and no two nodes should have the same value i.e) the values in the binary search tree are distinct.The values in any left sub-tree is less than the value of its parent node.The values in any right sub-tree is greater than the value of its parent node.The left and right sub-trees of each node are again binary search trees.							
define cache memory
cache memory is random access memory ram that a computer microprocessor can access more quickly than it can access regular ram as the microprocessor processes data it looks first in the cache memory and if it finds the data there from a previous reading of data it does not have to do the more timeconsuming reading of data from larger memory
What are the benefits and losses of placing the functionality in a device controller rather than in placing it in the kernel?
System crasher due to the occurrence of a bug is greatly reduced.By the utilization of dedicated hardware and algorithms that are hard coded the performance can be improved greatly.Since the algorithms are hard coded the kernel gets simplified.Once a bug occurs they are difficult to fix, a new firmware or revision may be required. For performance improvement of algorithms hardware upgrades are required rather than a device driver update.
What are the basic criteria for selecting appropriate algorithm?							
Execution Time.	Storage Space.	Programming Effort.							
What Are The Disadvantages Of Sequential Storage?							
Fixed amount of storage remains allocated to the data structure even if it contains less element. No more than fixed amount of storage is allocated causing overflow.							
What is euclidean distance transform
Computes the distance between every point in a grid and a discrete collection of points.
What Is Smp?
SMP is short for Symmetric MultiProcessing, and is the most common type of multiple-processor systems. In this system, each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system, and these copies communicate with one another as needed.
What Are The Types Of Collision Resolution Strategies In Open Addressing?									
Linear probing.Quadratic probing.Double hashing.							
What is thrashing?
Thrashing is a phenomenon in virtual memory scheme when the processor spends most of its time in swapping pages, rather than executing instructions. 
define process migration
it is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine
what do you mean by the difference between process and program
a program while running or executing is known as a process 
What Is An Acyclic Graph?							
A simple diagram which does not have any cycles is called an acyclic graph.							
What is the best page size when designing an operating system?
The best paging size varies from system to system, so there is no single best when it comes to page size. There are different factors to consider in order to come up with a suitable page size, such as page table, paging time, and its effect on the overall efficiency of the operating system.
What is the difference between process and program?
A program while running or executing is known as a process. 
What is Response Time:
This is the time elapsed from when a process is submitted until a useful output is obtained.
how do you explain girvannewman algorithm 
detect communities in complex systems
What is a daemon?
Daemon - Disk and execution monitor, is a process that runs in the background without users interaction. They usually start at the booting time and terminate when the system is shut down.
how do you explain a socket
a socket provides a connection between two applications each endpoint of a communication is a socket
How are problems solved in linear programming 
Problems that can be solved with linear programming include the maximum flow problem for directed graphs. If a problem additionally requires that one or more of the unknowns must be an integer then it is classified in integer programming. 
how do you explain recursive algorithm
a recursive algorithm is one that invokes or makes reference to itself repeatedly until a certain condition 
define triangularisation 
a triangulation is a subdivision of a planar object into triangles and by extension the subdivision of a higherdimension geometric object into simplices
What is beam search 
beam search is a heuristic search algorithm that explores a graph by expanding the most promising node in a limited set. Beam search is an optimization of best-first search that reduces its memory requirements
define euclidean distance transform
computes the distance between every point in a grid and a discrete collection of points
how do you explain a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
what do you mean by the worst case performance of selection sort
the worst case performance of selection sort is on2
define matching wildcards 
an algorithm for matching wildcards also known as a globbing is useful in comparing text strings that may contain wildcard syntax
define spaghetti sort 
this algorithm sorts a sequence of items requiring on stack space in a stable manner it requires a parallel processor
define kargerstein algorithm 
kargers algorithm is a randomized algorithm to compute a minimum cut of a connected graph
what do you mean by needle manwunsch algorithm
find global alignment between two sequences
What are the basic criteria for selecting appropriate algorithm?							
Execution Time.	Storage Space.Programming Effort.							
define fortunes algorithm 
to create voronoi diagram
how do you explain merge algorithm 
merge algorithms are a family of algorithms that take multiple sorted lists as input and produce a single list as output containing all the elements of the inputs lists in sorted order 
how do you explain the meaning of export command in ubuntu
export is a command in bash shell language when you try to set a variable it is visible or exported to any subprocess started from that instance of bash  the variable will not exist in the subprocess without the export command
 Which File Contains The Definition Of Member Functions?						
Definitions of member functions for the Linked List class are contained in the LinkedList.cpp file.							
what do you mean by flash sort 
flashsort is a distribution sorting algorithm showing linear computational complexity for uniformly distributed data sets and relatively little additional memory requirement
what do you mean by medium term scheduling
medium term scheduling is part of the swapping function this relates to processes that are in a blocked or suspended state they are swapped out of realmemory until they are ready to execute the swappingin decision is based on memorymanagement criteria
what do you mean by kargerstein algorithm 
kargers algorithm is a randomized algorithm to compute a minimum cut of a connected graph
define a minimum spanning tree
a minimum spanning tree of an undirected graph g is a tree formed from graph edges that connects all the vertices of g at the lowest total cost
what do you mean by ftdisk
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
define the purpose of batch operating system
all jobs are submitted at once and are executed in a particular order with any preemption which means that no jobs can be taken unless these complete
What is exponentiating by squaring 
A way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
what do you mean by breadthfirst search 
breadthfirst search bfs is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures
What Are The Tasks Performed During Preorder Traversal?							
Process the root node.Traverse the left sub-tree.	Traverse the right sub-tree.							
What are the possible threads a thread can have?
Ready,Standby,Running,Waiting,Transition,Terminated
define topological sort
finds linear order of nodes eg jobs based on their dependencies
what do you mean by delaunay triangularisation
delaunay triangulation also known as a delone triangulation for a given set p of discrete points in a plane is a triangulation dtp such that no point in p is inside the circumcircle of any triangle in dtp
What is edmonds-edmonds-kara algorithm
implementation of FordFulkerson
What is gnome sort 
The gnome sort is a sorting algorithm which is similar to insertion sort in that it works with one item at a time but gets the item to the proper place by a series of swaps, similar to a bubble sort.
What do you mean by linked list?							
Linked lists are flexible data structure that provide a convenient way to store data. In computer science a linked list is a data structure consisting of a group of nodes which together represent a sequence. Under the simplest form	 each node is composed of a datum and a reference to the next node in the sequence; more complex variants add additional links. This structure allows for efficient insertion or removal of elements from any position in the sequence.					
how do you explain hopcroft karp algorithm 
convert a bipartite graph to a maximum cardinality matching
Explain condition variable.
These are synchronization objects which help threads wait for particular conditions to occur. Without condition variable, the thread has to continuously check the condition which is very costly on the resources. Condition variable allows the thread to sleep and wait for the condition variable to give it a signal.
what do you mean by primss algorithm 
prims also known as jarnks algorithm is a greedy algorithm that finds a minimum spanning tree for a weighted undirected graph
define needle manwunsch algorithm
find global alignment between two sequences
how do you explain double metaphone 
the double metaphone phonetic encoding algorithm is the second generation of this algorithm
Define Degree Of The Node?							
The total number of sub-trees attached to that node is called the degree of the node.							
what do you mean by beam search 
beam search is a heuristic search algorithm that explores a graph by expanding the most promising node in a limited set beam search is an optimization of bestfirst search that reduces its memory requirements
define exponentiating by squaring 
a way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
What is starvation and aging?
Starvation is Resource management problem where a process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processes.Aging is a technique to avoid starvation in a scheduling system.
What is shoe lace algorithm 
determine the area of a polygon whose vertices are described by ordered pairs in the plane
define a sibling
siblingsbrothers children of the same node are called siblings of each other in the preceding figurenodes 7 and 3 are siblings of each othernodes 2 and 6 are siblings of each other
When does the Belady's anomaly occur?
The Belady's anomaly is a situation in which the number of page faults increases when additional physical memory is added to a system. This anomaly arises in some algorithms that implement virtual memory. The virtual memory allows programs larger than the physical memory space to execute. An algorithm suffers from this problem when it cannot guarantee that a page will be kept when a small number of frames are available. An optimal algorithm would not suffer from this problem as it replaces the page not to be used for the longest time. The anomaly occurs when the page replacement algorithm will remove a page that will be needed in the immediate future. An optimal algorithm will not select such a page that will be required immediately. This anomaly is also stated to be unbounded.
Explain the Bootstrap program and the process to boot the system.
The process of starting a computer system by loading the kernel is known as booting the system. Whenever a user first-time logs into the system then an initial program has to run. The program which instructs the system on its initial run is the bootstrap program. This program is stored in read-only memory or EEPROM (electrically erasable programmable read-only memory). The bootstrap program will locate the kernel and will load it into main memory and then the program will start its execution.
what do you mean by scsi
scsi  small computer systems interface is a type of interface used for computer components such as hard drives optical drives scanners and tape drives it is a competing technology to standard ide integrated drive electronics
Explain thread.
It is an independent flow of control within a process. It consists of a context and a sequence of instructions for execution.
What is kernel?
A kernel is the core of every operating system. It connects applications to the actual processing of data. It also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability.
what do you mean by the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
what do you mean by euclidean shortest path problem 
find the shortest path between two points that does not intersect any obstacle
What are the different types of RealTime Scheduling?
Hard real time systems required to complete a critical task within a guaranteed amount of time.Soft real time computing requires that critical processes receive priority over less fortunate ones.
what do you mean by a command interpreter
it is a program that interprets the command input through keyboard or command batch file it helps the user to interact with the os and trigger the required system programs or execute some user application command interpreter is also referred to as control card interpretercommand line interpreterconsole command processor and shell
what do you mean by the need for extendible hashing
if either open addressing hashing or separate chaining hashing is used the major problem is that collisions could cause several blocks to be examined during a find even for a welldistributed hash table extendible hashing allows a find to be performed in two disk accesses insertions also require few disk accesses
what do you mean by library sort 
library sort or gapped insertion sort is a sorting algorithm that uses an insertion sort but with gaps in the array to accelerate subsequent insertions
Explain the purpose of using a libaio package in Ubuntu?
Libaio is Linux Kernel Asynchronous I/O (A/O).  A/O allows even a single application thread to overlap I/O operations with other processing, by providing an interface for submitting one or more I/O requests in one system call without waiting for completion.  And a separate interface to reap completed I/O operations associated with a given completion group.
what do you mean by the basic function of paging
paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physicaladdress space of a process to be noncontiguous it avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store
what do you mean by merge algorithm 
merge algorithms are a family of algorithms that take multiple sorted lists as input and produce a single list as output containing all the elements of the inputs lists in sorted order 
What is difference between divide and conquer algorithm and dynamic programming 
The main difference between dynamic programming and divide and conquer is that subproblems are more or less independent in divide and conquer, whereas subproblems overlap in dynamic programming. 
What is EIDE?
EIDE is a bus called enhanced integrated drive electronics.The input output devices are attached to the computer by a set of wires called the bus.The data transfer on a bus are carried out by electronic processes called controllers.The host controller sends messages to device controller and device controller performs the operations.These device controllers consist of built in cache so that data transfer occurs at faster speed.
how do you explain nysiis
phonetic algorithm improves on soundex
Explain Euclids algorithms in computer terms 
Only a few instruction types are required to execute Euclid's algorithmsome logical tests (conditional GOTO), unconditional GOTO, assignment (replacement), and subtraction.
What is the resident set and working set of a process?
Resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in real-memory at a particular instant. Working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution. (Relate this to the variable-window size method for swapping techniques.)
How can the speed of interrupt driven input output systems be improved?
Direct memory access is used to enhance the speed of the input output systems.Here, buffers, counters and pointers are set for the devices.The device controller transfers the block of data directly from own buffer storage to memory.The data is not given to the CPU for further transfer between CPU and input output devices or CPU and memory.Only one interrupt is generated per block than one interrupt per byte which enhances the speed.
What is the best case efficiency of binary search?							
The best case efficiency of binary search is O(1).							
What Is A Priority Queue?							
The priority queue is a data structure in which the intrinsic ordering of the elements (numeric or alphabetic) Determines the result of its basic operation. It is of two types,they are Ascending priority queue- Here smallest item can be removed (insertion is arbitrary).Descending priority queue- Here largest item can be removed (insertion is arbitrary).		
what do you mean by fortunes algorithm 
to create voronoi diagram
What Is A Queue ?					
A Queue is a sequential organization of data. A queue is a first in first out type of data structure. An element is inserted at the last position and an element is always taken out from the first position.						
List The Two Important Key Points Of Depth First Search?							
If path exists from one node to another node	 walk across the edge  exploring the edge.	If path does not exist from one specific node to any other node	 return to the previous node where we have been before  backtracking.						
define bankers algorithm
bankers algorithm is used to avoid deadlock it is the one of deadlockavoidance method it is named as bankers algorithm on the banking system where bank never allocates available cash in such a manner that it can no longer satisfy the requirements of all of its customers 
define phonetic algorithm 
a phonetic algorithm is an algorithm for indexing of words by their pronunciation
Define Terminal Nodes In A Tree?								
A node that has no children is called a terminal node. It is also referred to as leaf node.								
What is collision detection
check for the collision or intersection of two given solids
What differences are there between a semaphore wait signal emaphore wait signal?
They can be used anywhere except in a monitor.The wait() function does not always blocks its caller.The signal() function increments the semaphore counter and can release a process.If the signal() releases a process, the released and the caller both continue.It can only be used in monitors.The wait() function always blocks its caller.The signal() can either release a process or it is lost as if it never occurred.On signal() releasing a process either the caller or the released continues but not both at the same time.
what do you mean by data structure
a data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored but also their relationship to each other advance knowledge about the relationship between data items allows designing of efficient algorithms for the manipulation of data 
How do we define bubble sort?							
Bubble sort repeatedly scan the list	 comparing adjacent elements swapping them if they are in wrong order. 						
define smp
to achieve maximum efficiency and reliability a mode of operation known as symmetric multiprocessing is used in essence with smp any process or threads can be assigned to any processor
define a device queue
a list of processes waiting for a particular io device is called device queue
How does priority queue works 
In a priority queue, an element with high priority is served before an element with low priority. In some implementations, if two elements have the same priority, they are served according to the order in which they were enqueued, while in other implementations, ordering of elements with the same priority is undefined.
define logarithmic time 
logarithmic time if the time is a logarithmic function of the input size eg binary search algorithm
how do you explain knapsack problem
the knapsack problem is a problem where there is a set of given items the goal of the problem is to pack the knapsack to get the maximum total value each item has some weight and some value total weight that we can carry is no more than some fixed number x so we must consider weights of items as well as their value
what do you mean by jarowinkler distance 
it is a measure of similarity between two strings
what do you mean by boruvkas algorithm 
boruvkas algorithm is a greedy algorithm for finding a minimum spanning tree in a graph for which all edge weights are distinct or a minimum spanning forest in the case of a graph that is not connected
define bowyerwatson algorithm 
create voronoi diagram in any number of dimensions
how do you explain reversedelete algorithm
the reversedelete algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory used to obtain a minimum spanning tree from a given connected edgeweighted graph
What is difference between straight forward recursion and dynamic recursion 
The difference between dynamic programming and straightforward recursion is in caching or memoization of recursive calls. 
What is Floyd- warshall algorithm 
solves the all pairs shortest path problem in a weighted, directed graph
how do you explain raid 
this is the basic os interview questions which is asked in an interview raid stands for redundant array of independent disks to improve overall performance the data is stored redundantly and used whenever required
what do you mean by extended euclidean algorithm 
also solves the equation ax  by  c
What is exhaustive search
This is the naive method of trying every possible solution to see which is best.
how do you explain the purpose of realtime operating system
here a specified time is allotted for each job and it is usually a critical application pertaining to military operations satellites
Explain why Ubuntu is safe and not affected by viruses?
It does not support malicious e-mails and contents, and before any e-mail is opened by users it will go through many security checks,Ubuntu uses Linux, which is a super secure O.S system.Unlike other O.S, countless Linux users can see the code at any time and can fix the problem if there is any.Malware and viruses are coded to take advantage of the weakness in Windows
what do you mean by starvation in operating system
starvation is resource management problem in this problem a waiting process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processes
What is process migration?
It is the transfer of sufficient amount of the state of process from one machine to the target machine.
what do you mean by newtonraphson division
an algorithm used for the fast computation of large integer powers of a number
define dead lock
deadlock is a situation or condition where the two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start this result both the processes to hang
define demand paging
demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the ram then the os brings the missingand required pages from the disk into the ram
define library sort 
library sort or gapped insertion sort is a sorting algorithm that uses an insertion sort but with gaps in the array to accelerate subsequent insertions
how do you explain an operating system
an operating system is a collection of software programs which control the allocation and usage of various hardware resources in the system it is the first program to be loaded in the computer and it runs in the memory till the system is shut down some of the popular operating systems are dos windows ubuntu solaris etc
how do you explain nearest neighbour algorithm 
the nearest neighbour algorithm was one of the first algorithms used to determine a solution to the travelling salesman problem
define a folder in ubuntu 
there is no concept of folder in ubuntu everything including your hardware is a file
define sequence sorting 
sorting the data in a sequence 
define spooling
spooling is a process in which data is temporarily gathered to be used and executed by a device program or the system it is associated with printing when different applications send output to the printer at the same time spooling keeps these all jobs into a disk file and queues them accordingly to the printer 
What is SSS*
state space search traversing a game tree in a best-first fashion similar to that of the A* search algorithm
State The Difference Between Queues And Linked Lists?							
The difference between queues and linked lists is that insertions and deletions may occur anywhere in the linked list	 but in queues insertions can be made only in the rear end and deletions can be made only in the front end.						
what do you mean by sorting algorithm 
a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order
What is cipollas algorithm 
Cipolla's algorithm is a technique for solving a congruence of the form
Define Depth And Height Of A Tree?								
The depth of the tree is the depth of the deepest leaf. The height of the tree is equal to the height of the root. Always depth of the tree is equal to height of the tree.	
How do you classify algorithms 
Another way is by optimisation problems.
What Do You Mean By Back Edge?							
If w is the ancestor of v	 then vw is called a bak edge.						
what do you mean by floyds cyclefinding algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations
What is the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm?							
The complexity is O(n2). The time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to (n2)	 where n is the number of input items.						
What is boruvkas algorithm 
Boruvka's algorithm is a greedy algorithm for finding a minimum spanning tree in a graph for which all edge weights are distinct, or a minimum spanning forest in the case of a graph that is not connected.
Give some examples of greedy algorithms 
Huffman Tree, Kruskal, Prim, Sollin are greedy algorithms that can solve this optimization problem.
what do you mean by heapnsort 
pick the smallest of the remaining elements add it to the end of the sorted list
what do you mean by minimum spanning tree 
a minimum spanning tree mst or minimum weight spanning tree is a subset of the edges of a connected edgeweighted undirected graph that connects all the vertices together without any cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight
how do you explain worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm
worst case  on2 and average case  on2
define gilbertjohnsonkeerthi distance algorithm 
determining the smallest distance between two convex shapes
define the worst case performance of binary search
the worst case performance of binary search is olog n
how do you explain multitasking
multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time however only one application is active at a time for user interaction although some applications can run behind the scene
define longest path problem
find a simple path of maximum length in a given graph
define zhu takaoka string matching algorithms 
searches multiple patterns efficiently
define cpu utilization
percentage of time that the cpu is doing useful work ie not being idle 100 is perfect
define demand paging
demand paging is referred when not all of a processs pages are in the ram then the os brings the missingand required pages from the disk into the ram
define a cycle or a circuit
a path which originates and ends in the same node is called a cycle or circuit
what do you mean by deadlock explain
deadlock is a specific situation or condition where two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start but this situation causes hang for both of them
define postman sort 
variant of bucket sort which takes advantage of hierarchical structure
What is cycle stealing?
We encounter cycle stealing in the context of Direct Memory Access (DMA). Either the DMA controller can use the data bus when the CPU does not need it, or it may force the CPU to temporarily suspend operation. The latter technique is called cycle stealing. Note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle.
What is an operating system?
An operating system is a collection of software programs which control the allocation and usage of various hardware resources in the system. It is the first program to be loaded in the computer and it runs in the memory till the system is shut down. Some of the popular Operating Systems are DOS, Windows, Ubuntu, Solaris etc.
how do you explain the main use of dynamic programming
dynamic programming reduces the exponential nature of many problems to polynomial complexity
Write an algorithm for traversing a singly-linked list							
The algorithm for traversing a singly-linked list is as follows:	Make currentNode point to the first node in the list.Repeat step 3 and 4 until currentNode becomes NULL.	Display the information contained in the node marked as currentNode.Make currentNode point to thr next node in sequence.							
What is chakravala method 
a cyclic algorithm to solve indeterminate quadratic equations, including Pell's equation
What is virtual memory?
Virtual memory is hardware technique where the system appears to have more memory that it actually does. This is done by time-sharing, the physical memory and storage parts of the memory one disk when they are not actively being used.
What Are Time Sharing Systems?
In a Time sharing system, the CPU executes multiple jobs by switching among them, also known as multitasking. This process happens so fast that users can actually interact with each program while it is running.
What is the worst case scenario for bubble sort	 and why?						
The worst situation for bubble sort is when the list's smallest element is in the last position. In this situation	 the smallest element will move down one place on each pass through the list	 meaning that the sort will need to make the maximum number of passes through the list	 namely n - 1.				
what do you mean by longest common subsequence problem
find the longest subsequence common to all sequences in a set of sequences
how do you explain microkernel
it is kernel with a limited service that is with some important services runningexample qnxrealtime os
What is alpha max plus beta min algorithm 
an approximation of the square-root of the sum of two squares
What is warnsdorffs rule 
Warnsdorf's rule is a heuristic for finding a knight's tour
What is iterative deepening depth-first search
a state space search strategy
how do you explain worst case space complexity of bubble sort algorithm
o1 auxiliary
what do you mean by chakravala method 
a cyclic algorithm to solve indeterminate quadratic equations including pells equation
What is spigot algorithm 
A way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
What Is Nos?
NOS is short for Network Operating System. It is a specialized software that will allow a computer to communicate with other devices over the network, including file/folder sharing.
how do you explain cycle sort 
inplace with theoretically optimal number of writes
how do you explain dices coefficient 
a similarity measure related to the jaccard index
What is selection algorithm 
In computer science, a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array; such a number is called the kth order statistic.
how do you explain asymmetric clustering
in asymmetric clustering a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server that machine takes the active servers role should the server fails
how do you explain the type of the algorithm used in solving the 8 queens problem
backtracking
What is a long term scheduler & short term schedulers?
Long term schedulers are the job schedulers that select processes from the job queue and load them into memory for execution. The short term schedulers are the CPU schedulers that select a process from the ready queue and allocate the CPU to one of them.
What is User data
Modifiable part of user space. May include program data, user stack area, and programs that may be modified.
What are the basic functions of file management in OS?
Creation and deletion of files/ directories.Support of primitives for files/ directories manipulation.Backing up of files on storage media. Mapping of files onto secondary storage.
What is randomised algorithm 
A randomized algorithm is an algorithm that employs a degree of randomness as part of its logic.
List Out The Basic Operations That Can Be Performed On A Stack ?							
The basic operations that can be performed on a stack are	Push operation.	Pop operation.Peek operation.Empty check.Fully occupied check.							
define faugere f4 algorithm 
finds a grbner basis also mentions the f5 algorithm
how do you explain eide
eide is a bus called enhanced integrated drive electronicsthe input output devices are attached to the computer by a set of wires called the busthe data transfer on a bus are carried out by electronic processes called controllersthe host controller sends messages to device controller and device controller performs the operationsthese device controllers consist of built in cache so that data transfer occurs at faster speed
What Is Sequential Search?							
In sequential search each item in the array is compared with the item being searched until a match occurs. It is applicable to a table organized either as an array or as a linked list.							
What Do You Mean By Probing?							
Probing is the process of getting next available hash table array cell
What is the concept of reentrancy?
It is a very useful memory saving technique that is used for multi-programmed time sharing systems. It provides functionality that multiple users can share a single copy of program during the same period. It has two key aspectst.They are the program code cannot modify itself.The local data for each user process must be stored separately. 
what do you mean by pigeonhole sort 
pigeonhole sorting is a sorting algorithm that is suitable for sorting lists of elements where the number of elements n and the length of the range of possible key values n are approximately the same
define mutant
in windows nt a mutant provides kernel mode or user mode mutual exclusion with the notion of ownership
what is best-first search 
Best-first search is a search algorithm which explores a graph by expanding the most promising node chosen according to a specified rule.
what do you mean by cone algorithm 
identify surface points
how do you explain user program
the instructions to be executed
how do you explain preemptive multitasking
preemptive multitasking allows an operating system to switch between software programs this in turn allows multiple programs to run without necessarily taking complete control over the processor and resulting in system crashes
how do you explain buchbergers algorithm
finds a grbner basis
What is discrete logarithm 
the discrete logarithm logb a is an integer k such that bk = a
how do you explain d
an incremental heuristic search algorithm
Define Hashing?											
Hashing is the transformation of string of characters into a usually shorter fixed length value or key that represents the original string. Hashing is used to index and retrieve items in a database because it is faster to find the item using the short hashed key than to find it using the original value.							
Explain How You Can Reset Unity Configuration?
To reset the unity configuration the simplest way to do is to hit open a Terminal or hit Atl-F2  and run the command # unity reset.
Whether Linked List Is Linear Or Non-linear Data Structure?							
According to Access strategies Linked list is a linear one.According to Storage Linked List is a Non-linear one.
define the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
What is Hungarian algorithm 
algorithm for finding a perfect matching
what are placement and replacement algorithms?
Placement algorithms determine where in available real-memory to load a program. Common methods are first-fit, next-fit, best-fit. Replacement algorithms are used when memory is full, and one process (or part of a process) needs to be swapped out to accommodate a new program. The replacement algorithm determines which are the partitions to be swapped out.
how do you explain rabinkarp string search algorithms 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
What Is The Difference Between Null And Void Pointer?							
NULL can be value for pointer type variables,VOID is a type identifier which has not size.NULL and void are not same. Example void* ptr = NULL;							
define a queue 
a queue is a sequential organization of data a queue is a first in first out type of data structure an element is inserted at the last position and an element is always taken out from the first position
What are the different types of CPU registers in a typical operating system design?
Accumulators,Index Registers,Stack Pointer,General Purpose Registers
define short term scheduler 
short term scheduler also know as a dispatcher executes most frequently and makes the finestgrained decision of which process should execute next this scheduler is invoked whenever an event occurs it may lead to interruption of one process by preemption
What Are The Types Of Queues?							
Linear Queues  The queue has two ends	 the front end and the rear end. The rear end is where we insert elements and front end is where we delete elements. We can traverse in a linear queue in only one direction ie) from front to rear.Circular Queues  Another form of linear queue in which the last position is connected to the first position of the list. The circular queue is similar to linear queue has two ends	 the front end and the rear end. The rear end is where we insert elements and front end is where we delete elements. We can traverse in a circular queue in only one direction ie) from front to rear.	Double-Ended-Queue  Another form of queue in which insertions and deletions are made at both the front and rear ends of the queue.							
how do you explain the purpose of multitasking operating system
this operating system enables the user to simultaneously execute multiple tasks on a single processor the cpu in this case switches processes at a very fast pace and does it parallel
What is bidirectional search 
Bidirectional search is a graph search algorithm that finds a shortest path from an initial vertex to a goal vertex in a directed graph.
What are approximation algorithms 
approximation algorithms seek an approximation that is closer to the true solution
What is damerau-laenshtein distance 
DamerauLevenshtein distance compute a distance measure between two strings, improves on Levenshtein distance
What is soundex 
phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound, as pronounced in English
what do you mean by bubble sort 
for each pair of indices swap the items if out of order
what do you mean by monolithic kernel
it can be considered as a whole kernel that is a fullfledged kernel which provides all the services are runningexample unix
how do you explain the difference between internal commands and external commands
internal commands are the builtin part of the operating system while external commands are the separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory 
define tarjans strongly connected componets algorithms
tarjans algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory for finding the strongly connected components of a directed graph
What Are The Two Traversal Strategies Used In Traversing A Graph?							
Breadth first search	Depth first search							
define dijkstras algorithm
dijkstras algorithm is an algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph which may represent
how do you explain monolithic kernel
a monolithic kernel is a kernel which includes all operating system code is in single executable image
how do you explain time slice
the timer in cpu is set to interrupt every n milliseconds where this n is called the time sliceit is the time each user gets to execute before control is given to next userat the end of each time slice the value of n is incremented and the record is maintainedit also maintains the record of the total time user program has executed thus far this method helps in time sharing among the various users
how do you explain transitive closure 
find the transitive closure of a given binary relation
how do you explain ftdisk
it is a fault tolerance disk driver for windows nt
how do you explain kasanes algorithm
finds maximum subarray of any size
What is Gang scheduling:
A set of related threads is scheduled to run on a set of processors at the same time, on a 1-to-1 basis. Closely related threads / processes may be scheduled this way to reduce synchronization blocking, and minimize process switching. Group scheduling predated this strategy.
What is double metaphone 
The Double Metaphone phonetic encoding algorithm is the second generation of this algorithm
what do you mean by thrashing
thrashing is a phenomenon in virtual memory scheme when the processor spends most of its time in swapping pages rather than executing instructions 
What Is A Directed Graph?							
A graph in which every edge is directed is called a directed graph.						
what do you mean by forcebased algorithms
forcedirected graph drawing algorithms are a class of algorithms for drawing graphs in an aestheticallypleasing way
What is a named pipe?
A traditional pipe is unnamed and can be used only for the communication of related process. If unrelated processes are required to communicate - named pipes are required. It is a pipe whose access point is a file available on the file system. When this file is opened for reading, a process is granted access to the reading end of the pipe. Similarly, when the file is opened for writing, the process is granted access to writing end of the pipe. A named pipe is also referred to as FIFO or named FIFO.
define nonblocking minimal spanning switch
a nonblocking minimal spanning switch is a device that can connect n inputs to n outputs in any combination 
define algorithm design 
algorithm design refers to a method or mathematical process for problemsolving and engineering algorithm
Define A Path In A Tree?								
A path in a tree is a sequence of distinct nodes in which successive nodes are connected by edges in the tree.							
how do you explain maximal cliques 
a maximal clique is a clique that cannot be extended by including one more adjacent vertex
how do you explain floydwarshall algorithm
the shortest path to a goal from a vertex in a weighted graph can be found by using the shortest path to the goal from all adjacent vertices 
how do you explain aging in operating system
aging is a technique used to avoid the starvation in resource scheduling system
how do you explain the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
Differentiate Logical From Physical Address Space.?
Logical address refers to the address that is generated by the CPU. On the other hand, physical address refers to the address that is seen by the memory unit.
what do you mean by floyd warshall algorithm 
solves the all pairs shortest path problem in a weighted directed graph
how do you explain cpu utilization
percentage of time that the cpu is doing useful work ie not being idle 100 is perfect
Define Double Linked List?							
It is a collection of data elements called nodes where each node is divided into three parts.An info field that contains the information stored in the node.Left field that contain pointer to node on left side.Right field that contain pointer to node on right side.
how do you explain long term scheduler
long term scheduler determines which programs are admitted to the system for processing it controls the degree of multiprogramming once admitted a job becomes a process
what do you mean by user data
modifiable part of user space may include program data user stack area and programs that may be modified
what is a sibling?							
Siblings/Brothers: Children of the same node are called siblings of each other. In the preceding figure:Nodes 7 and 3 are siblings of each otherNodes 2 and 6 are siblings of each other							
What are the disadvantages of context switching?
Time taken for switching from one process to other is pure over head. Because the system does no useful work while switching. So one of the solutions is to go for threading when ever possible.
define closest pair problem
find the pair of points from a set of points with the smallest distance between them
State some fields in algorithms
search algorithms, sorting algorithms, merge algorithms, numerical algorithms, graph algorithms, string algorithms, computational geometric algorithms, combinatorial algorithms, medical algorithms, machine learning, cryptography, data compression algorithms and parsing techniques.
how do you explain time sharing system
in a timesharing system the cpu executes multiple jobs by switching among them also known as multitasking this process happens so fast that users can interact with each program while it is running
how do you explain bubble sort 
for each pair of indices swap the items if out of order
define boyer moore string search algorithm 
amortized linear sublinear in most times algorithm for substring search
What is Modular Method?							
In this method	 modulus operation is applied on each key. This involves dividing the key value by the size of the hash table to obtain the remainder of the division. The remainder is considered as the address of the record corresponding to the key value.						
what do you mean by the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm
the complexity is on2 the time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to n2 where n is the number of input items
how do you explain knuth morris pratt algorithm
substring search which bypasses reexamination of matched characters
What is the meaning of export command in Ubuntu?
Export is a command in Bash shell language. When you try to set a variable, it is visible or exported to any subprocess started from that instance of bash.  The variable will not exist in the sub-process without the export command.
How  does decrease and conquer algorithm work over divide and conquer algorithms 
Sorting is be done on each segment of data after dividing data into segments and sorting of entire data can be obtained in the conquer phase by merging the segments. 
What Do You Mean By Level Of The Tree?								
The root node is always considered at level zero then its adjacent children are supposed to be at level 1 and so on. 				
what do you mean by match rating approach 
match rating approach mra is a phonetic algorithm developed by western airlines in 1977 for the indexation and comparison of homophonous names
What is the worst case space complexity of selection sort?							
The worst case space complexity of selection sort is O(n) total	 O(1) auxiliary.						
What is Girvan-newman algorithm 
detect communities in complex systems
Differentiate between the user mode and monitor mode.
User mode and monitor mode are distinguished by a bit called the mode bit. User mode uses bit 1 and monitor mode uses bit 0.At the boot time hardware starts with the monitor mode.Also, at the time of interrupt user mode is shifted to the transfer mode.System always switches to the user mode before passing control to the user program. Whenever system gains control of the computer it works in monitor mode otherwise in user mode.
What is context switching ?
It is the process of switching the CPU from one process to another.This requires to save the state of the old process and loading the saved state for the new process.The context of the process is represented in the process control block.During switching the system does no useful work.How the address space is preserved and what amount of work is needed depends on the memory management.
how do you explain a kernel
kernel is the part of os which handles all details of sharing resources and device handlingit can be considered as the core of os which manages the core features of an osits purpose is to handle the communication between software and hardwareits services are used through system calls and a layer of software called shell wraps around the kernel
how do you explain selection algorithm
a selection algorithm is an algorithm for finding the kth smallest number in a list or array such a number is called the kth order statistic
Differentiate Bfs And Dfs?							
dfs in depth ordered search and bfs is alevel orderd search.					
What is merge sorting
comparison-based sorting algorithm.
what do you mean by tonellishanks algorithm 
the tonellishanks algorithm referred to by shanks as the ressol algorithm is used in modular arithmetic to solve for r in a congruence of the form r2  n mod p where p is a prime that is to find a square root of n modulo p
Define latency, transfer and seek time with respect to disk I/O.
Seek time is the time required to move the disk arm to the required track. Rotational delay or latency is the time it takes for the beginning of the required sector to reach the head. Sum of seek time (if any) and latency is the access time. Time taken to actually transfer a span of data is transfer time.
define the minimum number of nodes in an avl tree of height h
the minimum number of nodes sh in an avl tree of height h is given by shsh1sh21 for h0 sh1
define the idea behind splaying
splaying reduces the total accessing time if the most frequently accessed node is moved towards the root it does not require to maintain any information regarding the height or balance factor and hence saves space and simplifies the code to some extent
what do you mean by a socket
a socket provides a connection between two applications each endpoint of a communication is a socket
What are overlays?
Overlays makes a process to be larger than the amount of memory allocated to it. It ensures that only important instructions and data at any given time are kept in memory.
how do you explain postman sort 
variant of bucket sort which takes advantage of hierarchical structure
How many comparisons are performed in the second pass of the selection sort algorithm?							
n-2 comparisons are performed in the second pass of the selection sort algorithm.							
what do you mean by root partition
root partition is where the operating system kernel is located it also contains other potentially important system files that are mounted during boot time
what do you mean by coloring algorithm 
graph colouring algorithm
how do you explain starvation and aging
starvation is resource management problem where a process does not get the resources it needs for a long time because the resources are being allocated to other processesaging is a technique to avoid starvation in a scheduling system
What Is A Undirected Graph?							
A graph in which every edge is undirected is called a directed graph.					
what do you mean by a library
it is a file which contains object code for subroutines and data to be used by the other program
Explain thrashing.
In virtual memory system, thrashing is a high page fault scenario. It occurs due to under-allocation of pages required by a process. The system becomes extremely slow due to thrashing leading to poor performance.
What is FCFS?
FCFS stands for First Come, First Served. It is a type of scheduling algorithm. In this scheme, if a process requests the CPU first, it is allocated to the CPU first. Its implementation is managed by a FIFO queue.
define convex hull algorithms 
determining the convex hull of a set of points
Define Biconnectivity?							
A connected graph G is said to be biconnected	 if it remains connected after removal of any one vertex and the edges that are incident upon that vertex. A connected graph is biconnected	 if it has no articulation points.					
how do you explain divide and conquer algorithm
a divide and conquer algorithm repeatedly reduces an instance of a problem to one or more smaller instances of the same problem usually recursively until the instances are small enough to solve easily
What Is A Thread?
A thread is a basic unit of CPU utilization. In general, a thread is composed of a thread ID, program counter, register set and the stack.
define kasanes algorithm
finds maximum subarray of any size
What is nth root algorithm 
The principal root of a positive real number A, is the positive real solution of the equation
What is meant by arm-stickiness?
If one or a few processes have a high access rate to data on one track of a storage disk, then they may monopolize the device by repeated requests to that track. This generally happens with most common device scheduling algorithms (LIFO, SSTF, C-SCAN, etc). High-density multisurface disks are more likely to be affected by this than low density ones.
In loading programs into memory, what is the difference between load-time dynamic linking and run-time dynamic linking?
For load-time dynamic linking: Load module to be loaded is read into memory. Any reference to a target external module causes that module to be loaded and the references are updated to a relative address from the start base address of the application module.With run-time dynamic loading: Some of the linking is postponed until actual reference during execution. Then the correct module is loaded and linked.
What is a thread?
A thread is a basic unit of CPU utilization. In general, a thread is composed of a thread ID, program counter, register set, and the stack.
how do you explain priority queue
priority queue is an abstract data type which is like a regular queue or stack data structure but where additionally each element has a priority associated with it
define fuzzy algorithm 
fuzzy logic is an approach to computing based on degrees of truth rather than the usual true or false
Reference counting augments every object with a count of the number of times an object has been referenced. This count is incremented every time a reference to that object is made. Also every time a reference is destroyed the reference is decremented. This process is repeated till the reference count becomes zero. Once the reference count of an object reaches zero the object can be reclaimed. In this way, reference counting systems can perform automatic memory management by keeping a count in every object. Any object that does not have a reference count can be considered to be dead and that memory can be reclaimed.
The reference counting method can fail to reclaim objects in case of cyclic references. There are no concrete ways to avoid this problem and it is always suggested to create an architecture that does not use a circular reference.
What Is Kernel?
Kernel is the core of every operating system. It connects applications to the actual processing of data. It also manages all communications between software and hardware components to ensure usability and reliability.
what do you mean by soundex 
phonetic algorithm for indexing names by sound as pronounced in english
What is Throughput, Turnaround time, waiting time and Response time?
Throughput  number of processes that complete their execution per time unit,Turnaround time  amount of time to execute a particular process,Waiting time  amount of time a process has been waiting in the ready queue,Response time  amount of time 
Define A Queue?							
Queue is an ordered collection of elements in which insertions are restricted to one end called the rear end and deletions are restricted to other end called the front end. Queues are also referred as First-In-First-Out (FIFO) Lists.						
What is an algorithm
An algorithm is an unambiguous specification of how to solve a class of problems.
define merge sort 
sort the first and second half of the list separately then merge the sorted lists
what do you mean by a semaphore
a semaphore is a hardware or a software tag variable whose value indicates the status of a common resource its purpose is to lock the common resource being used a process which needs the resource will check the semaphore to determine the status of the resource followed by the decision for proceeding in multitasking operating systems the activities are synchronized by using the semaphore techniques
what do you mean by the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
what do you mean by an expression tree
an expression tree is a tree which is build from infix or prefix or postfix expression generally in such a tree the leaves are operands and other nodes are operators
how do you explain smithwaterman algorithm 
find local sequence alignment
how do you explain rich salz wildcat 
a widely used opensource recursive algorithm
List The Types Of Rotations Available In Splay Tree?							
Let us assume that the splay is performed at vertex v	 whose parent and grandparent are p and g respectively. Then	 the three rotations are named asZig If p is the root and v is the left child of p	 then left-left rotation at p would suffice. This case always terminates the splay as v reaches the root after this rotation.Zig-Zig If p is not the root	 p is the left child and v is also a left child	 then a left-left rotation at g followed by a left-left rotation at p	 brings v as an ancestor of g as well as p.	Zig-Zag If p is not the root	 p is the left child and v is a right child	 perform a left-right rotation at g and bring v as an ancestor of p as well as g.			
define the use of threaded binary tree
in threaded binary tree the null pointers are replaced by some addresses the left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor
What is a binary semaphore? What is its use?
A binary semaphore is one, which takes only 0 and 1 as values. They are used to implement mutual exclusion and synchronize concurrent processes.
how do you explain a simple graph
a simple graph is a graph which has not more than one edge between a pair of nodes than such a graph is called a simple graph
What is System Stack
Each process has one or more LIFO stacks associated with it. Used to store parameters and calling addresses for procedure and system calls.Process control Block (PCB): Info needed by the OS to control processes.
What are the sub-components of I/O manager in Windows NT?
Network redirector/ Server,Cache manager,File systems,Network driver and Device driver
define filtered back projection 
efficiently compute the inverse 2dimensional radon transform
how do you explain simplex algorithm 
the simplex algorithm operates on linear programs in the canonical form
How can a VFS layer allow multiple file systems support?
The VFS layer also known as the virtual file system functions in many ways similar to object oriented programming techniques. It acts like an abstraction layer on top of a more specific file system. The VFS layer enables the OS to make system calls independent of the file system type used. Any file system that is used gives its function calls used and the data structures to the layer of VFS. The VFS layer translates a system call into the correct specific functions for the targeted file system. The program that is used for calling does not have a file system specific code also the system call structures used in upper levels are file system independent. The VFS layer translation translates the non-file system specific calls into a file system specific operation.
what do you mean by kosrajus problem
kosarajus algorithm also known as the kosarajusharir algorithm is a linear time algorithm to find the strongly connected components of a directed graph
define bidirectional search 
bidirectional search is a graph search algorithm that finds a shortest path from an initial vertex to a goal vertex in a directed graph
define an expression tree
an expression tree is a tree which is build from infix or prefix or postfix expression generally in such a tree the leaves are operands and other nodes are operators
How does breadth search algorithm work 
It starts at the tree root (or some arbitrary node of a graph, sometimes referred to as a 'search key'[1]), and explores all of the neighbor nodes at the present depth prior to moving on to the nodes at the next depth level.
define the resident set and working set of a process
resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in realmemory at a particular instant working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution relate this to the variablewindow size method for swapping techniques
How many types of fragmentation occur in Operating System?
There are two types of fragmentation .They are Internal fragmentation: It is occurred when we deal with the systems that have fixed size allocation units. External fragmentation: It is occurred when we deal with systems that have variable-size allocation units. 
what do you mean by decrease and conquer algorithms
a simpler variant of divide and conquer is called a decrease and conquer algorithm that solves an identical subproblem and uses the solution of this subproblem to solve the bigger problem 
What is gift wrapping algorithm 
In computational geometry, the gift wrapping algorithm is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a given set of point
define hamming distance 
sum number of positions which are different
what do you mean by double metaphone 
the double metaphone phonetic encoding algorithm is the second generation of this algorithm
What is a process?
A program in execution is called a process.Processes are of two types are Operating system processes and User processes
define the function of turnaround time
this is considered to be the time elapsed from when a process is submitted to when it has completed
What is reverse-delete algorithm
The reverse-delete algorithm is an algorithm in graph theory used to obtain a minimum spanning tree from a given connected, edge-weighted graph
Why is the context switch overhead of a user-level threading as compared to the overhead for processes? Explain.
This is due to the reason that a context switch implementation is done by the kernel. During this process the state information is copied between the processor and the PCB (process control block) or the TCB (thread control block). Since the kernel does not know anything about user-level threads, technically it is not possible for it to be a user level thread context switch. The user level scheduler can do some limited state copying on the behalf of a thread prior to the control being handed to that thread. But this copying of state information is smaller compared to that of a kernel-level process. Also the process does not involve going into the kernel mode with the help of a system call.
What is index calculus algorithm 
the index calculus algorithm is a probabilistic algorithm for computing discrete logarithms.
define greedy algorithm
a greedy algorithm is an algorithmic paradigm that follows the problem solving heuristic of making the locally optimal choice at each stage1 with the intent of finding a global optimum
how do you explain pigeonhole sort 
pigeonhole sorting is a sorting algorithm that is suitable for sorting lists of elements where the number of elements n and the length of the range of possible key values n are approximately the same
how do you explain tarjans offline lowest common ancestors algorithm
compute lowest common ancestors for pairs of nodes in a tree
define maximal cliques 
a maximal clique is a clique that cannot be extended by including one more adjacent vertex
What is an operating system?
An operating system is a program that acts as an intermediary between the user and the computer hardware. The purpose of an OS is to provide a convenient environment in which user can execute programs in a convenient and efficient manner.
What is backtracking 
Backtracking is a general algorithm for finding all (or some) solutions to some computational problems, notably constraint satisfaction problems, that incrementally builds candidates to the solutions, and abandons a candidate ("backtracks") as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution
Define A Stack?	
Stack is an ordered collection of elements in which insertions and deletions are restricted to one end. The end from which elements are added and/or removed is referred to as top of the stack. Stacks are also referred as piles	 push-down lists and last-in-first-out (LIFO) lists.											
Is it possible to have a deadlock involving only one process? Explain your answer.
Deadlock with one process is not possible. Here is the explanation.
define the purpose of multitasking operating system
this operating system enables the user to simultaneously execute multiple tasks on a single processor the cpu in this case switches processes at a very fast pace and does it parallel
What is needle man-wunsch algorithm
find global alignment between two sequences
define simplex algorithm 
the simplex algorithm operates on linear programs in the canonical form
define multiplicative inverse algorithms 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
define rich salz wildcat 
a widely used opensource recursive algorithm
define comparison sort
a comparison sort is a type of sorting algorithm that only reads the list elements through a single abstract comparison operation often a less than or equal to operator or a threeway comparison that determines which of two elements should occur first in the final sorted list 
How are data structures handled by NTFS and how does it recover from a crash?
In an NTFS file system inside the transactions all the data structure updates are performed. Prior to the alteration of a data structure a transaction creates log record containing information on redo and undo functions. Once a transaction is completed commit record information is stored in the logs. 
What is online algorithm 
An online algorithm is one that can process its input piece-by-piece in a serial fashion, i.e., in the order that the input is fed to the algorithm, without having the entire input available from the beginning.
List Some Of The Dynamic Data Structures In C?							
Some of the dynamic data structures in C are linked lists	 stacks	 queues	 trees etc.				
define a virtual memory
virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory this is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory
what do you mean by a thread
a thread is a program line under execution thread sometimes called a lightweight process is a basic unit of cpu utilization it comprises a thread id a program counter a register set and a stack
List some techniques that are used to design a hash function?							
There are various techniques that can be used to design the hash function:	Truncation Method	Modular MethodMid Square Method	Folding Method							
What is cycle sort 
in-place with theoretically optimal number of writes
What is transitive closure 
find the transitive closure of a given binary relation
What Do You Mean By Separate Chaining?							
Separate chaining is a collision resolution technique to keep the list of all elements that hash to the same value. This is called separate chaining because each hash table element is a separate chain (linked list). Each linked list contains all the elements whose keys hash to the same index.							
define deadlock explain
deadlock is a specific situation or condition where two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start but this situation causes hang for both of them
What are interrupts?
Interrupts are part of a hardware mechanism that sends a notification to the CPU when it wants to gain access to a particular resource. An interrupt handler receives this interrupt signal and tells the processor to take action based on the interrupt request.
What Are The Tasks Performed While Traversing A Binary Tree?							
Visiting a node.Traverse the left sub-tree.	Traverse the right sub-tree.							
what do you mean by the basic difference between preemptive and nonpreemptive scheduling
preemptive scheduling allows interruption of a process while it is executing and taking the cpu to another process while nonpreemptive scheduling ensures that a process keeps the cpu under control until it has completed execution
how do you explain ditchmokotoff sounded 
daitchmokotoff soundex dm soundex is a phonetic algorithm
how do you explain spigot algorithm 
a way to compute the value of a mathematical constant without knowing preceding digits
what do you mean by an operating system
an operating system is a collection of software programs which control the allocation and usage of various hardware resources in the system it is the first program to be loaded in the computer and it runs in the memory till the system is shut down some of the popular operating systems are dos windows ubuntu solaris etc
define absolute path
relative path is relative to the current path
how do you explain push relabel algorithm 
computes a maximum flow in a graph
what do you mean by synchronization what are the different synchronization mechanisms
synchronization means controlling access to a resource that is available to two or more threads or process different synchronization mechanisms are mutexsemaphoresmonitorscondition variables critical regions and read write locks
how do you explain floyds cyclefinding algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations
define risch algorithm
an algorithm for the calculus operation of indefinite integration ie finding antiderivatives
define sequential search
in sequential search each item in the array is compared with the item being searched until a match occurs it is applicable to a table organized either as an array or as a linked list
define virtual memory
virtual memory is a very useful memory management technique which enables processes to execute outside of memory this technique is especially used when an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory 
how do you explain kargerstein algorithm 
kargers algorithm is a randomized algorithm to compute a minimum cut of a connected graph
State paradigms under design paradigms 
brute force or exhaustive search, divide and conquer, search and enumeration, randomised algorithm reduction of complexity, backtracking 
What is Medium term scheduling
Medium term scheduling is part of the swapping function. This relates to processes that are in a blocked or suspended state. They are swapped out of real-memory until they are ready to execute. The swapping-in decision is based on memory-management criteria.
define las vegas algorithm
las vegas algorithm is a randomized algorithm that always gives correct results that is it always produces the correct result or it informs about the failure
How many different trees are possible with 10 nodes ?							
1014  For example	 consider a tree with 3 nodes(n=3)	 it will have the maximum combination of 5 different (ie	 23 - 3 =  5) trees.				
how do you explain the worst case space complexity of selection sort
the worst case space complexity of selection sort is on total o1 auxiliary
define randomised algorithm 
a randomized algorithm is an algorithm that employs a degree of randomness as part of its logic
how do you explain breadthfirst search 
breadthfirst search bfs is an algorithm for traversing or searching tree or graph data structures
what do you mean by bucket sort 
bucket sort or bin sort is a sorting algorithm that works by distributing the elements of an array into a number of buckets
define girvannewman algorithm 
detect communities in complex systems
how do you explain the use of paging in operating system
paging is used to solve the external fragmentation problem in operating system this technique ensures that the data you need is available as quickly as possible 
Selection sort is suitable for which type of list.							
Selection sort is suitable for small list.							
what do you mean by filtered back projection 
efficiently compute the inverse 2dimensional radon transform
What Is The Translation Lookaside Buffer (tlb)?
In a cached system, the base addresses of the last few referenced pages is maintained in registers called the TLB that aids in faster lookup. TLB contains those page-table entries that have been most recently used. Normally, each virtual memory reference causes 2 physical memory accesses- one to fetch appropriate page-table entry, and one to fetch the desired data. Using TLB in-between, this is reduced to just one physical memory access in cases of TLB-hit.
How do you define selection sort?							
Selection sort scans through the list iteratively	 selecting one item in each scan	 and moving the item to its correct position in the list.NOTE: Iteratively means one by one. It can also be called 'in a loop'.							
how do you explain predictive search 
binarylike search which factors in magnitude of search term versus the high and low values in the search sometimes called dictionary search or interpolated search
how do you explain the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm
the bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth
Which are the two principle criteria for selecting a hash function?							
Two principle criteria for selecting a hash function are:It should be easy and quick to compute.	It should achieve a uniform distribution of keys in address space.							
When is a system in safe state?
The set of dispatchable processes is in a safe state if there exists at least one temporal order in which all processes can be run to completion without resulting in a deadlock.
What is rich salz wildcat 
a widely used open-source recursive algorithm
define relative path
absolute path is exact path from root directory
what do you mean by the best case performance of selection sort
the best case performance of selection sort is on2
What is Brents algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations using only two iterators
What are serial problems 
Some problems have no parallel algorithms and are called inherently serial problems.
what do you mean by the resident set and working set of a process
resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in realmemory at a particular instant working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution relate this to the variablewindow size method for swapping techniques
What Are The Different Types Of Cpu Registers In A Typical Operating System Design?
Accumulators,Index Registers,Stack Pointer and General Purpose Registers
define pollards rho algorithm 
it uses only a small amount of space and its expected running time is proportional to the square root of the size of the smallest prime factor of the composite number being factorized
What is plumbing/piping?
It is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another. For example, instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen, it can be piped and sent to a file, or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy.
how do you explain matching wildcards 
an algorithm for matching wildcards also known as a globbing is useful in comparing text strings that may contain wildcard syntax
what do you mean by girvannewman algorithm 
detect communities in complex systems
what do you mean by cubic interpolation 
in numerical analysis a cubic hermite spline or cubic hermite interpolator is a spline where each piece is a thirddegree polynomial specified in hermite form1 that is by its values and first derivatives at the end points of the corresponding domain interval
What are steps for preorder traversing a binary tree?							
The steps for preorder traversing a binary tree is as follows:	Visit the root	Traverse the left sub-tree	Traverse the right sub-tree							
define an operating system
an operating system is a program that acts as an intermediary between the user and the computer hardware the purpose of an os is to provide a convenient environment in which user can execute programs in a convenient and efficient manner
how do you explain introsoft 
begin with quicksort and switch to heapsort when the recursion depth exceeds a certain level
what do you mean by the minimum number of nodes in an avl tree of height h
the minimum number of nodes sh in an avl tree of height h is given by shsh1sh21 for h0 sh1
What is minimum spanning tree 
A minimum spanning tree (MST) or minimum weight spanning tree is a subset of the edges of a connected, edge-weighted undirected graph that connects all the vertices together, without any cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight.
define throughput turnaround time waiting time and response time
throughput  number of processes that complete their execution per time unitturnaround time  amount of time to execute a particular processwaiting time  amount of time a process has been waiting in the ready queueresponse time  amount of time 
define logical and physical addresses space
logical address space is generated from cpu it bound to a separate physical address space is central to proper memory management physical address space is seen by the memory unit logical address space is virtual address space both these address space will be same at compile time but differ at execution time
what do you mean by worst case efficiency of linear search
the best case efficiency of linear search is on
what do you mean by the difference between null and void pointer
null can be value for pointer type variablesvoid is a type identifier which has not sizenull and void are not same example void ptr  null
define direct access method
direct access method is based on a disk model of a file such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records it allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written direct access is advantageous when accessing large amounts of information
what do you mean by the basic function of paging
paging is a memory management scheme that permits the physical address space of a process to be noncontiguous it avoids the considerable problem of having to fit varied sized memory chunks onto the backing store
define the need for priority queue
in a multiuser environment the operating system scheduler must decide which of the several processes to run only for a fixed period of time one algorithm uses queue jobs are initially placed at the end of the queue the scheduler will repeatedly take the first job on the queue run it until either it finishes or its time limit is up and place it at the end of the queue if it does not finish this strategy is not appropriate because very short jobs will soon to take a long time because of the wait involved in the rungenerally it is important that short jobs finish as fast as possible so these jobs should have precedence over jobs that have already been running further more some jobs that are not short are still very important and should have precedence this particular application seems to require a special kind of queue known as priority queue priority queue is also called as heap or binary heap
how do you explain a simple path
a path in a diagram inwhich the edges are distinct is called a simple path it is also called as edge simple
What Is A Queue?							
A queue is an ordered collection of items from which items may be deleted at one end (front end) and items inserted at the other end (rear end).It obeys FIFO rule there is no limit to the number of elements a queue contains.							
define gift wrapping algorithm 
in computational geometry the gift wrapping algorithm is an algorithm for computing the convex hull of a given set of point
what do you mean by direct access method
direct access method is based on a disk model of a file such that it is viewed as a numbered sequence of blocks or records it allows arbitrary blocks to be read or written direct access is advantageous when accessing large amounts of information
How do you define binary search?							
A binary search or half-interval search finds the position of a specified value (the input "key") within a sorted array. Binary search is applied only on the list which is sorted and if the list to be searched is not sorted	 it needs to be sorted before binary search can be applied to it.						
define a
a pronounced a star is a computer algorithm that is widely used in pathfinding and graph traversal which is the process of finding a path between multiple points called nodes 
What is multitasking?
Multitasking is the process within an operating system that allows the user to run several applications at the same time. However, only one application is active at a time for user interaction, although some applications can run behind the scene.
What kind of problems can linear programming solve 
A linear programming algorithm can solve such a problem if it can be proved that all restrictions for integer values are superficial, i.e., the solutions satisfy these restrictions anyway. In the general case, a specialized algorithm or an algorithm that finds approximate solutions is used, depending on the difficulty of the problem.
what do you mean by the best case efficiency of binary search
the best case efficiency of binary search is o1
What are the problems in the bubble sort?							
The bubble sort have Turtles and rabbits problem. Because big elements (rabbits) go up fast	 while small ones (turtles) go down very slow.						
What is bitap algorithm 
fuzzy algorithm that determines if strings are approximately equal.
What Is The Data Structures Used To Perform Recursion?							
Stack. Because of its LIFO (Last In First Out) property it remembers its caller so knows whom to return when the function has to return. Recursion makes use of system stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls.								
What is the basic difference between pre-emptive and non-pre-emptive scheduling.
Pre-emptive scheduling allows interruption of a process while it is executing and taking the CPU to another process while non-pre-emptive scheduling ensures that a process keeps the CPU under control until it has completed execution.
What is a trap and trapdoor?
Trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication. A trap is a software interrupt, usually the result of an error condition.
how do you explain meant by strongly connected in a graph
an undirected graph is connected if there is a path from every vertex to every other vertex a directed graph with this property is called strongly connected
what do you mean by lavenshtein edit distance 
compute a metric for the amount of difference between two sequences
how do you explain library sort 
library sort or gapped insertion sort is a sorting algorithm that uses an insertion sort but with gaps in the array to accelerate subsequent insertions
When a user first turn on or booted the computer, it needs some initial program to run. This initial program is known as Bootstrap Program. It is stored in read-only memory (ROM) or electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (EEPROM). Bootstrap program locates the kernel and loads it into main memory and starts its execution.
Describe Main memory and Secondary memory storage in brief.
To represent an arithmetic expression binary tree uses three notations which are those notations?							
To represent an arithmetic expression binary tree uses three notations those are: Infix notation  Prefix notation	Postfix notation							
what is degree of a node?							
Degree of a node: The number of subtrees of a node is called the degree of a node							
What is Dedicated processor assignment
Provides implicit scheduling defined by assignment of threads to processors. For the duration of program execution, each program is allocated a set of processors equal in number to the number of threads in the program. Processors are chosen from the available pool.
how do you explain bentleyottmann algorithm 
the bentleyottmann algorithm is a sweep line algorithm for listing all crossings in a set of line segments
how do you explain the best case performance of selection sort
the best case performance of selection sort is on2
What Is Asymmetric Clustering?
In asymmetric clustering, a machine is in a state known as hot standby mode where it does nothing but to monitor the active server. That machine takes the active servers role should the server fails.
What Do You Mean By 2-3 Tree?							
A B-tree of order 3 is called 2-3 tree. A B-tree of order 3 is a tree that is not binary with the following structural propertiesThe root is either a leaf or has between 2 and 3 children.All non-leaf nodes (except the root) have between 2 and 3 children.		All leaves are at the same depth.							
define page cannibalizing
page swapping or page replacements are called page cannibalizing
what do you mean by jump search
linear search on a smaller subset of the sequence
how do you explain brents algorithm 
finds a cycle in function value iterations using only two iterators
how do you explain primality tests
determining whether a given number is prime
What is average case performance of binary search?							
The average case performance of binary search is O(log n).							
define worst case and average case of bubble sort algorithm
worst case  on2 and average case  on2
what do you mean by las vegas algorithm
las vegas algorithm is a randomized algorithm that always gives correct results that is it always produces the correct result or it informs about the failure
What is set division
compute elementary functions using a table of logarithms
define shortest path problem 
in graph theory the shortest path problem is the problem of finding a path between two vertices or nodes in a graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized
What are non-deterministic algorithms 
non-deterministic algorithms solve problems via guessing although typical guesses are made more accurate through the use of heuristics.
define spectral layout 
spectral layout is a class of algorithm for drawing graphs
define the main use of dynamic programming
dynamic programming reduces the exponential nature of many problems to polynomial complexity
what do you mean by fragmentation
fragmentation is memory wasted it can be internal if we are dealing with systems that have fixedsized allocation units or external if we are dealing with systems that have variablesized allocation units
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?			
Compiler Design	,Operating System,Database Management System	  Statistical analysis package	  Numerical Analysis	  Graphics	  Artificial Intelligence	  Simulation 
State The Demerit Of Linear Representation Of Binary Trees?								
Insertions and deletions in a node take an excessive amount of processing time due to data movement up and down the array.								
What is primality tests
determining whether a given number is prime
Define Dynamic Data Structures?							
A data structure formed when the number of data items are not known in advance is known as dynamic data structure or variable size data structure.					
What are residence monitors?
Early operating systems were called residence monitors.
how do you explain hybrid kernel
it combines the aspect of both monolithic as well as a microkernelexample microsoft nt kernel
what do you mean by a undirected graph
a graph in which every edge is undirected is called a directed graph
define dualmode operation
in order to protect the operating systems and the system programs from the malfunctioning programs the two mode operations were evolvedsystem mode and user mode
What is topological sort 
a topological sort or topological ordering of a directed graph is a linear ordering of its vertices such that for every directed edge uv from vertex u to vertex v, u comes before v in the ordering
What is baby-step gain step
the baby-step giant-step is a meet-in-the-middle algorithm for computing the discrete logarithm.
define graham scan 
grahams scan is a method of finding the convex hull of a finite set of points in the plane with time complexity on log n
how do you explain truncation method
this method is used to compute the address of a record in this method a part of the numeric key is considered as an offset address of the corresponding record
What Do You Mean By Hash Function?							
A hash function is a key to address transformation which acts upon a given key to compute the relative position of the key in an array. The choice of hash function should be simple and it must distribute the data evenly. A simple hash function is hash_key=key mod tablesize.							
how do you explain rr scheduling algorithm
rr roundrobin scheduling algorithm is primarily aimed for timesharing systems a circular queue is setup in such a way that the cpu scheduler goes around that queue allocating cpu to each process for a time interval of up to around 10 to 100 milliseconds
what do you mean by insertion sort 
determine where the current item belongs in the list of sorted ones and insert it there
what do you mean by linear programming 
when searching for optimal solutions to a linear function bound to linear equality and inequality constraints the constraints of the problem can be used directly in producing the optimal solutions
define merge sorting
comparisonbased sorting algorithm
what do you mean by mutant
in windows nt a mutant provides kernel mode or user mode mutual exclusion with the notion of ownership
how do you explain back tracking approach
in this approach multiple solutions are built incrementally and abandoned when it is determined that they cannot lead to a valid full solution
define cycle sort 
inplace with theoretically optimal number of writes
What Are The Applications Of B-tree?														
Database implementation.	Indexing on non primary key fields.							
When Does Thrashing Occur?
Thrashing refers to an instance of high paging activity. This happens when it is spending more time paging instead of executing.
how do you explain cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
Which is the fundamental principle of hashing?							
The fundamental principle of hashing is to convert a given key value to an offset address to retrieve a record.							
Define Outdegree Of A Graph?										
In a directed graph	 for any node v	 the number of edges which have v as their initial node is called the out degree of the node v.					
how do you explain cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
What are the states of a process?
New, Runnin, Waiting,Ready and Terminated.
how do you explain the difference between a stack and an array
stack is a ordered collection of itemsstack is a dynamic object whose size is constantly changing as items are pushed and poppedstack may contain different data typesstack is declared as a structure containing an array to hold the element of the stack and an integer to indicate the current stack top within the array array is an ordered collection of itemsarray is a static object ie no of item is fixed and is assigned by the declaration of the arrayit contains same data typesarray can be home of a stack ie array can be declared large enough for maximum size of the stack
how do you explain smp
smp is a short form of symmetric multiprocessing it is the most common type of multipleprocessor systems in this system each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another as needed
What is the purpose of Multi-tasking operating system
This operating system enables the user to simultaneously execute multiple tasks on a single processor. The CPU, in this case, switches processes at a very fast pace and does it parallel.
how do you explain kosrajus problem
kosarajus algorithm also known as the kosarajusharir algorithm is a linear time algorithm to find the strongly connected components of a directed graph
how do you explain longest increasing subsequence problem
find the longest increasing subsequence of a given sequence
what do you mean by thrashing
thrashing occurs when the processor is spending most of its time in swapping pages instead of executing the instructions
how do you explain virtual memory
virtual memory is a memory management technique for letting processes execute outside of memory this is very useful especially is an executing program cannot fit in the physical memory
What are DDks? Name an operating system that includes this feature.
DDks are device driver kits, which are equivalent to SDKs for writing device drivers. Windows NT includes DDks.
what do you mean by bidirectional search 
bidirectional search is a graph search algorithm that finds a shortest path from an initial vertex to a goal vertex in a directed graph
how do you explain a daemon
daemon is a program that runs in the background without users interaction a daemon runs in a multitasking operating system like unix a daemon is initiated and controlled by special programs known as processes
define ternary search 
a technique for finding the minimum or maximum of a function that is either strictly increasing and then strictly decreasing or vice versa
define beladys anomaly
beladys anomaly is also called fifo anomaly usually on increasing the number of frames allocated to a process virtual memory the process execution is faster because fewer page faults occur sometimes the reverse happens ie the execution time increases even when more frames are allocated to the process this is beladys anomaly this is true for certain page reference patterns
define a thread
a thread is a basic unit of cpu utilization in general a thread is composed of a thread id program counter register set and the stack
how do you explain throughput
the number of processes completed  time unit
how do you explain plumbingpiping
it is the process of using the output of one program as an input to another for example instead of sending the listing of a folder or drive to the main screen it can be piped and sent to a file or sent to the printer to produce a hard copy
What Do You Mean By Structure Property In A Heap?						
A heap is a binary tree that is completely filled with the possible exception at the bottom level	 which is filled from left to right. Such a tree is known as a complete binary tree.	
define the difference between array and stack
stack follows lifo thus the item that is first entered would be the last removedin array the items can be entered or removed in any order basically each member access is done using index no strict order is to be followed here to remove a particular elementarray may be multidiamensional or onediamensional but stack should be onediamensional but both are linear data structure
List The Applications Of Queues?							
Jobs submitted to printerReal life lineCalls to large companiesAccess to limited resources in Universities	Accessing files from file server					
how do you explain backtracking 
backtracking is a general algorithm for finding all or some solutions to some computational problems notably constraint satisfaction problems that incrementally builds candidates to the solutions and abandons a candidate backtracks as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution
Define Avl Tree?							
An empty tree is height balanced. If T is a non-empty binary tree with TL and TR as its left and right subtrees	 then T is height balanced if	TL and TR are height balanced and	?hL - hR?? 1Where hL and hR are the heights of TL and TR respectively.							
what do you mean by booths multiplication algorithm 
booths multiplication algorithm is a multiplication algorithm that multiplies two signed binary numbers in twos complement notation 
define a trap and trapdoor
trapdoor is a secret undocumented entry point into a program used to grant access without normal methods of access authentication a trap is a software interrupt usually the result of an error condition
what do you mean by jump point search
an optimization to a which may reduce computation time by an order of magnitude using further heuristics
define executive in windows nt
in windows nt executive refers to the operating system code that runs in kernel mode
what do you mean by backtracking 
backtracking is a general algorithm for finding all or some solutions to some computational problems notably constraint satisfaction problems that incrementally builds candidates to the solutions and abandons a candidate backtracks as soon as it determines that the candidate cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution
Define A Set?														
A set S is an unordered collection of elements from a universe. An element cannot appear more than once in S. The cardinality of S is the number of elements in S. An empty set is a set whose cardinality is zero. A singleton set is a set whose cardinality is on
How is algorithm designed for parallel computers 
Parallel algorithms use computer architectures where several processors can work on a problem at the same time, whereas distributed algorithms utilize multiple machines connected with a computer network.
What is the use of behavior tab in Ubuntu?
Through behaviors tab, you can make many changes on the appearance of the desktop.Auto-hide the launcher: You can use this option to reveal the launcher when moving the pointer to the defined hot spot.Enable workspaces:  By checking this option, you can enable workspace.Add show desktop icon to the launcher: This option is used to display the desktop icon on the launcher
how do you explain gospers algorithm
find sums of hypergeometric terms that are themselves hypergeometric terms
what do you mean by steinhausjohnsontrotter algorithm 
generate permutations by transposing elements
what do you mean by cachecoherency
in a multiprocessor system there exist several caches each may containing a copy of same variable a then a change in one cache should immediately be reflected in all other caches this process of maintaining the same value of a data in all the caches s called cachecoherency
Give some examples of heuristic algorithms
Such algorithms include local search, tabu search, simulated annealing, and genetic algorithms,approximation algorithm.
define serial algorithm
algorithms are usually discussed with the assumption that computers execute one instruction of an algorithm at a time those computers are sometimes called serial computers an algorithm designed for such an environment is called a serial algorithm 
what do you mean by general problem solver 
any problem that can be expressed as a set of wellformed formulas wffs or horn clauses and that constitute a directed graph with one or more sources viz axioms and sinks viz desired conclusions can be solved
what do you mean by floydwarshall algorithm
the shortest path to a goal from a vertex in a weighted graph can be found by using the shortest path to the goal from all adjacent vertices 
what do you mean by multiplicative inverse algorithms 
an approximation of the squareroot of the sum of two squares
what do you mean by schreiersims algorithms 
computing a base and strong generating set bsgs of a permutation group
What is an Assembler?
An assembler acts as a translator for low-level language. Assembly codes written using mnemonic commands are translated by the Assembler into machine language.
What is nonblocking minimal spanning switch
A nonblocking minimal spanning switch is a device that can connect N inputs to N outputs in any combination. 
define pollards p1 algorithm 
it is a specialpurpose algorithm meaning that it is only suitable for integers with specific types of factors it is the simplest example of an algebraicgroup factorisation algorithm
define a socket
a socket is used to make connection between two applications endpoints of the connection are called socket
how do you explain extended euclidean algorithm 
also solves the equation ax  by  c
what do you mean by an edge
edge a link from the parent to the child node is referred to as edge it is also known as a branch a tree with n nodes has n1 edges
define kruscals algorithm
kruskals algorithm is a minimumspanningtree algorithm which finds an edge of the least possible weight that connects any two trees in the forest
define lavenshtein edit distance 
compute a metric for the amount of difference between two sequences
define a critical section
it is a section of code which can be executed only by one process at a time
How do you define hashing?							
Hashing is the method of finding and retrieving information associated with a unique identifying key.							
What is the complexity of the bubble sort algorithm?							
The complexity is O(n2). The time required to execute the bubble sort algorithm is proportional to (n2)	 where n is the number of input items.						
what do you mean by chain search 
a recursive algorithm for determining roots of polynomials defined over a finite field
how do you explain the need for extendible hashing
if either open addressing hashing or separate chaining hashing is used the major problem is that collisions could cause several blocks to be examined during a find even for a welldistributed hash table extendible hashing allows a find to be performed in two disk accesses insertions also require few disk accesses
what do you mean by traveling salesman problem 
given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities what is the shortest possible route that visits each city and returns to the origin city
What is an idle thread?
The special thread a dispatcher will execute when no ready thread is found.
what do you mean by serial algorithm
algorithms are usually discussed with the assumption that computers execute one instruction of an algorithm at a time those computers are sometimes called serial computers an algorithm designed for such an environment is called a serial algorithm 
define heapnsort 
pick the smallest of the remaining elements add it to the end of the sorted list
What Do You Mean By Shortest Path?							
A path having minimum weight between two vertices is known as shortest path	 in which weight is always a positive number.					
how do you explain a drawback of mvt
they are  theability to support multiple processorsvirtual storagesource level debugging
What Is The Use Of Threaded Binary Tree?							
In threaded binary tree	 the NULL pointers are replaced by some addresses. The left pointer of the node points to its predecessor and the right pointer of the node points to its successor.	
what do you mean by dead lock
deadlock is a situation or condition where the two processes are waiting for each other to complete so that they can start this result both the processes to hang
State The Difference Between Stacks And Linked Lists?					
The difference between stacks and linked lists is that insertions and deletions may occur anywhere in a linked list	 but only at the top of the stack.					
what do you mean by the difference between internal commands and external commands
internal commands are the builtin part of the operating system while external commands are the separate file programs that are stored in a separate folder or directory 
Define Ancestor And Descendant ?								
If there is a path from node n1 to n2	 then n1 is the ancestor of n2 and n2 is the descendant of n1.							
define minimum bounding box algorithm 
find the oriented minimum bounding box enclosing a set of points
What is graph search algorithm
If each vertex in a graph is to be traversed by a tree-based algorithm (such as DFS or BFS), then the algorithm must be called at least once for each connected component of the graph. 
how do you explain a critical section
it is a section of code which can be executed only by one process at a time
What is push relabel algorithm 
computes a maximum flow in a graph
what do you mean by the purpose of multiprocessing operating system
it is the ability where a user can execute multiple processes simultaneously on a multiprocessor system this utilizes more than one cpu at a time
what do you mean by children of tree
children of a node the roots of the subtrees of a node are called the children of the node in figure 7 and 3 are children of node 1
what do you mean by cache memory
cache memory is random access memory ram that a computer microprocessor can access more quickly than it can access regular ram as the microprocessor processes data it looks first in the cache memory and if it finds the data there from a previous reading of data it does not have to do the more timeconsuming reading of data from larger memory
define gnome sort 
the gnome sort is a sorting algorithm which is similar to insertion sort in that it works with one item at a time but gets the item to the proper place by a series of swaps similar to a bubble sort
What is Belady's Anomaly?
Belady's Anomaly is also called FIFO anomaly. Usually, on increasing the number of frames allocated to a process virtual memory, the process execution is faster, because fewer page faults occur. Sometimes, the reverse happens, i.e., the execution time increases even when more frames are allocated to the process. This is Belady's Anomaly. This is true for certain page reference patterns.
how do you explain nearest neighbour search
the arbitrarily oriented minimum bounding box is the minimum bounding box calculated subject to no constraints as to the orientation of the result
how do you explain kruscals algorithm
kruskals algorithm is a minimumspanningtree algorithm which finds an edge of the least possible weight that connects any two trees in the forest
what do you mean by a long term scheduler  short term schedulers
long term schedulers are the job schedulers that select processes from the job queue and load them into memory for execution the short term schedulers are the cpu schedulers that select a process from the ready queue and allocate the cpu to one of them
What is triangularisation 
a triangulation is a subdivision of a planar object into triangles, and by extension the subdivision of a higher-dimension geometric object into simplices.
how do you explain leaf node
leaf nodeanode with no children is called leaf node they are also referred as terminal nodes in the given figure2511 and 4 are leaf nodes
What is the average case performance of selection sort?							
The average case performance of selection sort is O(n2).							
define cocktail shaker sort 
a bubble sort traversing the list alternately from front to back and back to front 
how do you explain cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
how do you explain the average case performance of selection sort
the average case performance of selection sort is on2
What is Delaunay triangularisation
Delaunay triangulation (also known as a Delone triangulation) for a given set P of discrete points in a plane is a triangulation DT(P) such that no point in P is inside the circumcircle of any triangle in DT(P).
what do you mean by cpu utilization
percentage of time that the cpu is doing useful work ie not being idle 100 is perfect
define comb sort 
the basic idea is to eliminate turtles or small values near the end of the list
how do you explain a socket
a socket is used to make connection between two applications endpoints of the connection are called socket
What is the purpose of Multiprogramming operating system
This acts to be an extension of Batch OS, where main memory can have several jobs at once and they would be executed in a particular order at a particular time.
What is the purpose of Real-time operating system
Here a specified time is allotted for each job and it is usually a critical application pertaining to military operations, satellites.
what do you mean by hamming distance 
sum number of positions which are different
how do you explain convex hull algorithms 
determining the convex hull of a set of points
how do you explain the function of turnaround time
this is considered to be the time elapsed from when a process is submitted to when it has completed
define semaphore
semaphore is a variable whose status reports common resource semaphore is of two types one is binary semaphore and other is counting semaphore
What Do You Mean By Linear Probing?							
Linear probing is an open addressing collision resolution strategy in which F is a linear function of i	 F(i)=i. This amounts to trying sequentially in search of an empty cell. If the table is big enough	a free cell can always be found	 but the time to do so can get quite large.				
Define Data Type And What Are The Types Of Data Type?							
Data type refers to the kinds of data that variables may hold in the programming language. Eg) int	 float	 char	 double  C	The following are the types of data type							Built in data type- int	 float	 char	 double which are defined by programming language itself	User defined data type- Using the set of built in data types user can define their own data typeEg typedef struct student							
define cycle stealing
we encounter cycle stealing in the context of direct memory access dma either the dma controller can use the data bus when the cpu does not need it or it may force the cpu to temporarily suspend operation the latter technique is called cycle stealing note that cycle stealing can be done only at specific break points in an instruction cycle
What is graceful degradation?
It is the ability to continue providing service proportional to level of hardware.Systems designed for graceful degradation are called fault tolerant.If we have several processors connected together, then failure of one would not stop the system.Then the entire system runs only 10% slower.This leads to increased reliability of the system.
define counting sort 
counting sort is an algorithm for sorting a collection of objects according to keys that are small integers that is it is an integer sorting algorithm
What are different types of linked list?							
Singly-linked list	 Doubly-linked list and Circular linked list						
how do you explain marshalling
the process of packaging and sending interface method parameters across thread or process boundaries
What Is The Minimum Number Of Nodes In An Avl Tree Of Height H?							
The minimum number of nodes S(h)	 in an AVL tree of height h is given by S(h)=S(h-1)+S(h-2)+1. For h=0	 S(h)=1.					
define level of a node
level of a node the distance of a node from the root is called the level of a node the root always lies at level 0 as move down the tree the level of a node increases in such a way that if a node is at level n then its children are at level n1 in preceding figure level of node 1 is 0 level of nodes 7 and 3 are 1 and so on
What is sequence sorting 
Sorting the data in a sequence 
What is the order of growth of the bubble sort algorithm?							
The bubble sort algorithm has a quadratic order of growth.							
Write an algorithm for deleting a node from the beginning of the singly-linked list.							
The algorithm to delete a node from the beginning of the list is as follows: Mark the first node in the list as current.	Make START POINT to the next node in its sequence.	Release he memory for the node marked as current.							
define smp
smp is short for symmetric multiprocessing and is the most common type of multipleprocessor systems in this system each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another as needed
define krauss matching wildcards algorithm
an opensource nonrecursive algorithm
When Designing The File Structure For An Operating System, What Attributes Are Considered?
Typically, the different attributes for a file structure are naming, identifier, supported file types, and location for the files, size, and level of protection.
what do you mean by faugere f4 algorithm 
finds a grbner basis also mentions the f5 algorithm
how do you explain fragmentation
fragmentation is a phenomenon of memory wastage it reduces the capacity and performance because space is used inefficiently
define patience sorting
a variant of the algorithm efficiently computes the length of a longest increasing subsequence in a given array
what do you mean by buchbergers algorithm
finds a grbner basis
how do you explain polling hellman algorithm
is a specialpurpose algorithm for computing discrete logarithms in a finite abelian group whose order is a smooth integer
define topological sort 
a topological sort or topological ordering of a directed graph is a linear ordering of its vertices such that for every directed edge uv from vertex u to vertex v u comes before v in the ordering
define a socket
a socket provides a connection between two applications each endpoint of a communication is a socket
What do you understand by folding method?							
In this method	 an address is calculated by breaking the keys into parts and then adding them. Consider the following keys:	4766934	5656975	4685637	3547807	7569664			
how do you explain babystep gain step
the babystep giantstep is a meetinthemiddle algorithm for computing the discrete logarithm
define smp
smp stands for symmetric multiprocessing it is the most common type of multiple processor system in smp each processor runs an identical copy of the operating system and these copies communicate with one another when required
what do you mean by the resident set and working set of a process
resident set is that portion of the process image that is actually in realmemory at a particular instant working set is that subset of resident set that is actually needed for execution relate this to the variablewindow size method for swapping techniques
how do you explain the main purpose of an operating system
there are two main purposes of an operating systemit is designed to make sure that a computer system performs well by managing its computational activitiesit provides an environment for the development and execution of programs 
what do you mean by executive in windows nt
in windows nt executive refers to the operating system code that runs in kernel mode
what do you mean by a kernel
kernel is the part of os which handles all details of sharing resources and device handlingit can be considered as the core of os which manages the core features of an osits purpose is to handle the communication between software and hardwareits services are used through system calls and a layer of software called shell wraps around the kernel
